000101
I Ching Hexagram 36.
Ming I / Darkening of the Light

Upper trigram: K'un The Receptive, Earth

Lower trigram: Li The Clinging, Flame

The Judgement

Darkening of the Light. In adversity

It furthers one to be persevering.

The Image

The light has sunk into the earth:

The image of Darkening of the Light.

Thus does the superior man live with the great mass:

He veils his light, yet still shines.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Darkening of the light during flight.

He lowers his wings.

The superior man does not eat for three days

On his wanderings.

But he has somewhere to go.

The host has occasion to gossip about him.

The 2nd line marked means:

Darkening of the light injures him in the left thigh.

He gives aid with the strength of a horse.

Good fortune.

The 3rd line marked means:

Darkening of the light during the hunt in the south.

Their great leader is captured.

One must not expect perseverance too soon.

The 4th line marked means:

He penetrates the left side of the belly.

One gets at the very heart of the darkening of the light,

And leaves gate and courtyard.

The 5th line marked means:

Darkening of the light as with Prince Chi.

Perseverance furthers.

The top line marked means:

Not light but darkness.

First he climbed up to heaven,

Then he plunged into the depths of the earth.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

Here the sun has sunk under the earth and is therefore darkened. The name 
of the hexagram means literally "wounding of the bright"; hence the 
individual lines contain frequent references to wounding. The situation is 
the exact opposite of that in the foregoing hexagram. In the latter a wise man 
at the head of affairs has able helpers, and in company with them makes 
progress; here a man of dark nature is in a position of authority and brings 
harm to the wise and able man.

The Judgement

One must not unresistingly let himself be swept along by unfavorable 
circumstances, nor permit his steadfastness to be shaken. He can avoid this by 
maintaining his inner light, while remaining outwardly yielding and 
tractable. With this attitude he can overcome even the greatest adversities.

 In some situations indeed a man must hide his light, in order to make his 
will prevail inspite of difficulties in his immediate environment.
Perseverance must dwell in inmost consciousness and should not be 
discernible from without. Only thus is a man able to maintain his will in the 
face of difficulties.

The Image

In a time of darkness it is essential to be cautious and reserved. One should 
not needlessly awaken overwhelming enmity by inconsiderate behavior. In 
such times one ought not to fall in with the practices of others; neither 
should one drag them censoriously into the light. In social intercourse one 
should not try to be all-knowing. One should let many things pass, without 
being duped.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

With grandiose resolve a man endeavors to soar above all obstacles, but thus 
encounters a hostile fate. He retreats and evades the issue. The time is 
difficult. Without rest, he must hurry along, with no permanent abiding 
place. If he does not want to make compromises within himself, but insists 
on remaining true to his principles, he suffers deprivation. Never the less he 
has a fixed goal to strive for even though the people with whom he lives do 
not understand him and speak ill of him.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

Here the Lord of Light is in a subordinate place and is wounded by the Lord of 
Darkness. But the injury is not fatal; it is only a hindrance. Rescue is still 
possible. The wounded man gives no thought to himself; he thinks only of 
saving the others who are also in danger. Therefore he tries with all his 
strength to save all that can be saved. There is good fortune in thus acting 
according to duty.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

It seems as if chance were at work. While the strong, loyal man is striving 
eagerly and in good faith to create order, he meets the ringleader of the 
disorder, as if by accident, and seizes him. Thus victory is achieved. But in 
abolishing abuses one must not be too hasty. This would turn out badly 
because the abuses have been in existence so long.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

We find ourselves close to the commander of darkness and so discover his 
mot secret thoughts. In this way we realize that there is no longer any hope of 
improvement, and thus we are enabled to leave the scene of disaster before 
the storm breaks.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

Prince Chi lived at the court of the evil tyrant Chou Hsin, who, although not 
mentioned by name, furnished the historical example on which this whole 
situation is based. Prince Chi was a relative of the tyrant and could not 
withdraw from the court; therefore he concealed his true sentiments and 
feigned insanity. Although he was held a slave, he did not allow external 
misery to deflect him from his convictions.

 This provides a teaching for those who cannot leave their posts in times of 
darkness. In order to escape danger, they need invincible perseverance of 
spirit and redoubled caution in their dealings with the world.

 The top line marked

Here the climax of the darkening is reached. The dark power at first held so 
high a place that it could wound all who were on the side of good and of the 
light. But in the end it perishes of its own darkness, for evil must itself fall at 
the very moment when it has wholly overcome the good, and thus 
consumed the energy to which it owed its duration.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Earth upon Flame

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

