001001
I Ching Hexagram 51.
Chên / The Arousing (Shock, Thunder)

Upper trigram: Chên The Arousing, Thunder

Lower trigram: Chên The Arousing, Thunder

The Judgement

Shock brings success.

Shock comes--oh, oh!

Laughing words--ha, ha!

The shock terrifies for a hundred miles,

And he does not let fall the sacrificial spoon and chalice.

The Image

Thunder repeated: the image of Shock.

Thus in fear and trembling

The superior man sets his life in order

And examines himself.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Shock comes--oh, oh!

Then follow laughing words--ha, ha!

Good fortune.

The 2nd line marked means:

Shock comes bringing danger.

A hundred thousand times

You lose your treasures

And must climb the Change hills.

Do not go in pursuit of them.

After seven days you will get them back.

The 3rd line marked means:

Shock comes and makes one distraught.

If shock spurs to action

One remains free of misfortune.

The 4th line marked means:

Shock is mired.

The 5th line marked means:

Shock goes hither and thither.

Danger.

However, nothing at all is lost.

Yet there are things to be done.

The top line marked means:

Shock brings ruin and terrified gazing around.

Going ahead brings misfortune.

If is has not yet touched one's own body

But has reached one's neighbor first,

There is no blame.

One's comrades have something to talk about.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

The hexagram Chên represents the eldest son, who seizes rule with energy 
and power. A yang line develops below two yin lines and presses upward 
forcibly. This movement is so violent that it arouses terror. It is symbolized 
by thunder, which bursts forth from the earth and by its shock causes fear and 
trembling.

The Judgement

The shock that comes from the manifestation of God within the depths of the 
earth makes man afraid, but this fear of God is good, for joy and merriment 
can follow upon it.

 When a man has learned within his heart what fear and trembling mean, 
he is safeguarded against any terror produced by outside influences. Let the 
thunder roll and spread terror a hundred miles around: he remains so 
composed and reverent in spirit that the sacrificial rite is not interrupted.
This is the spirit that must animate leaders and rulers of men-a profound 
inner seriousness from which all terrors glance off harmlessly.

The Image

The shock of continuing thunder brings fear and trembling. The superior 
man is always filled with reverence at the manifestation of God; he sets his 
life in order and searches his heart, lest it harbor any secret opposition to the 
will of God. Thus reverence is the foundation of true culture.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

The fear and trembling engendered by shock come to an individual at first in 
such a way that he sees himself placed at a disadvantage as against others. But 
this is only transitory. When the ordeal is over, he experiences relief, and 
thus the very terror he had to endure at the outset brings good fortune in the 
long run.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

This pictures a situation in which a shock endangers a man and he suffers 
great losses. Resistance would be contrary to the movement of the time and 
for this reason unsuccessful. Therefore he must simply retreat to heights 
inaccessible to the threatening forces of danger. He must accept his loss of 
property without worrying too much about it. When the time of shock and 
upheaval that has robbed him of his possessions has passed, he will get them 
back again without going in pursuit of them.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

There are three kinds of shock-the shock of heaven, which is thunder, the 
shock of fate, and, finally, the shock of the heart. The present hexagram refers 
less to inner shock than to the shock of fate. In such times of shock, presence 
of mind is all too easily lost: the individual overlooks all opportunities for 
action and mutely lets fate take its course. But if he allows the shocks of fate 
to induce movement within his mind, he will overcome these external blows 
with little effort.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

Movement within the mind depends for its success partly on circumstances.
If there is neither a resistance that might be vigorously combated, nor yet a 
yielding that permits of victory-if, instead, everything is tough and inert like 
mire-movement is crippled.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

This is a case not of a single shock but of repeated shocks with no breathing 
space between. Nonetheless, the shock causes no loss, because one takes care 
to stay in the center of movement and in this way to be spared the fate of 
being helplessly tossed hither and thither.

 The top line marked

When inner shock is at its height, it robs a man of reflection and clarity of 
vision. In such a state of shock it is of course impossible to act with presence 
of mind. Then the right thing is to keep still until composure and clarity are 
restored. But this a man can do only when he himself is not yet infected by 
the agitation, although its disastrous effects are already visible in those 
around him. If he withdraws from the affair in time, he remains free of 
mistakes and injury. But his comrades, who no longer heed any warning, 
will in their excitement certainly be displeased with him. However, he must 
not take this into account.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Thunder upon Thunder

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

