001101
I Ching Hexagram 55.
Fêng / Abundance (Fullness)

Upper trigram: Chên The Arousing, Thunder

Lower trigram: Li The Clinging, Flame

The Judgement

Abundance has success.

The king attains abundance.

Be not sad.

Be like the sun at midday.

The Image

Both thunder and lightning come:

The image of Abundance.

Thus the superior man decides lawsuits

And carries out punishments.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

When a man meets his destined ruler,

They can be together ten days,

And it is not a mistake.

Going meets with recognition.

The 2nd line marked means:

The curtain is of such fullness

That the polestars can be seen at noon.

Through going one meets with mistrust and hate.

If one rouses him through truth,

Good fortune comes.

The 3rd line marked means:

The underbrush is of such abundance

That the small stars can be seen at noon.

He breaks his right arm. No blame.

The 4th line marked means:

The curtain is of such fullness

That the polestars can be seen at noon.

He meets his ruler, who is of like kind.

Good fortune.

The 5th line marked means:

Lines are coming,

Blessing and fame draw near.

Good fortune.

The top line marked means:

His house is in a state of abundance.

He screens off his family.

He peers through the gate

And no longer perceives anyone.

For three years he sees nothing.

Misfortune.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

Chên is movement; Li is flame, whose attribute is clarity. Clarity within, 
movement without-this produces greatness and abundance. The hexagram 
pictures a period of advanced civilization. However, the fact that 
development has reached a peak suggests that this extraordinary condition of 
abundance cannot be maintained permanently.

The Judgement

It is not given to every mortal to bring about a time of outstanding greatness 
and abundance. Only a born ruler of men is able to do it, because his will is 
directed to what is great. Such a time of abundance is usually brief. Therefore 
a sage might well feel sad in view of the decline that must follow. But such 
sadness foes not befit him. Only a man who is inwardly free of sorrow and 
care can lead in a time of abundance. He must be like the sun at midday, 
illuminating and gladdening everything under heaven.

The Image

This hexagram has a certain connection with Shih Ho, BITING THROUGH 
(21), in which thunder and lightning similarly appear together, but in the 
reverse order. In BITING THROUGH, laws are laid down; here they are 
applied and enforced. Clarity [Li] within makes it possible to investigate the 
facts exactly, and shock [Chên] without ensures a strict and precise carrying 
out of punishments.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

To bring about a time of abundance, a union of clarity with energetic 
movement is needed. Two individuals possessed of these two attributes are 
suited to each other, and even if they spend an entire cycle of time together 
during the period of abundance, it will not be too long, nor is it a mistake.
Therefore one may go forth, in order to make one's influence felt; it will meet 
with recognition.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

It often happens that plots and party intrigues, which have the darkening 
effect of an eclipse of the sun, come between a ruler intent on great 
achievement and the man who could effect great undertakings. Then, 
instead of the sun, we see the northern stars in the sky. The ruler is 
overshadowed by a party that has usurped power. If a man at such a time 
were to try to take energetic measures, he would encounter only mistrust and 
envy, which would prohibit all movement. The essential thing then is to 
hold inwardly to the power of truth, which in the end is so strong that it 
exerts an invisible influence on the ruler, so that all goes well.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

The image is that of a progressive covering over of the sun. Here the eclipse 
reaches totality, therefore even the small stars can be seen at noon.

 In the sphere of social relationships, this means that the prince is now so 
eclipsed that even the most insignificant persons can push themselves into 
the foreground. This makes it impossible for an able man, though he might 
be the right hand of the ruler, to undertake anything. It is as though his arm 
were broken, but he is not to blame for being thus hindered in action.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

Here the darkness is already decreasing, therefore interrelated elements come 
together. Here too the complement must be found-the necessary wisdom to 
complement joy of action. Then everything will go well. The 
complementary factor postulated here is the reverse of the one in the first 
line. In the latter, wisdom is to be complemented by energy, while here 
energy is complemented by wisdom.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

The ruler is modest and therefore open to the counsel of able men. Thus he 
is surrounded by men who suggest to him the lines of action. This brings 
blessing, fame, and good fortune to him and all the people.

 The top line marked

This describes a man who because of his arrogance and obstinacy attains the 
opposite of what he strives for. He seeks abundance and splendor for his 
dwelling. He wishes at all odds to be master in his house, which so alienates 
his family that in the end he finds himself completely isolated.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Thunder upon Flame

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

