010011
I Ching Hexagram 60.
Chieh / Limitation

Upper trigram: K'an The Abysmal, Water

Lower trigram: Tui The Joyous, Lake

The Judgement

Limitation. Success.

Galling limitation must not be persevered in.

The Image

Water over Lake: the image of Limitation.

Thus the superior man

Creates numbers and measure,

And examines the nature of virtue and correct conduct.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Not going out of the door and the courtyard

Is without blame.

The 2nd line marked means:

Not going out of the gate and the courtyard

Brings misfortune.

The 3rd line marked means:

He who knows no limitation

Will have cause to lament.

No blame.

The 4th line marked means:

Contented limitation. Success.

The 5th line marked means:

Sweet limitation brings good fortune.

Going brings esteem.

The top line marked means:

Galling limitation.

Perseverance brings misfortune.

Remorse disappears.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

A lake occupies a limited space. When more water comes into it, it 
overflows. Therefore limits must be set for the water. The image shows 
water below and water above, with the firmament between them as a limit.

 The Chinese word for limitation really denotes the joints that divide a 
bamboo stalk. In relation to ordinary life it means the thrift that sets fixed 
limits upon expenditures. In relation to the moral sphere it means the fixed 
limits that the superior man sets upon his actions-the limits of loyalty and 
disinterestedness.

The Judgement

Limitations are troublesome, but they are effective. If we live economically 
in normal times, we are prepared for times of want. To be sparing saves us 
from humiliation. Limitations are also indispensable in the regulation of 
world conditions. In nature there are fixed limits for summer and winter, 
day and night, and these limits give the year its meaning. In the same way, 
economy, by setting fixed limits upon expenditures, acts to preserve property 
and prevent injury to the people.

 But in limitation we must observe due measure. If a man should seek to 
impose galling limitations upon his own nature, it would be injurious. And 
if he should go too far in imposing limitations on others, they would rebel.
Therefore it is necessary to set limits even upon limitation.

The Image

A lake is something limited. Water is inexhaustible. A lake can contain only 
a definite amount of the infinite quantity of water; this is its peculiarity. In 
human life too the individual achieves significance through discrimination 
and the setting of limits. Therefore what concerns us here is the problem of 
clearly defining these discriminations, which are, so to speak, the backbone of 
morality. Unlimited possibilities are not suited to man; if they existed, his life 
would only dissolve in the boundless. To become strong, a man's life needs 
the limitations ordained by duty and voluntarily accepted. The individual 
attains significance as a free spirit only by surrounding himself with these 
limitations and by determining for himself what his duty is.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

Often a man who would like to undertake something finds himself 
confronted by insurmountable limitations. Then he must know where to 
stop. If he rightly understands this and does not go beyond the limits set for 
him, he accumulates an energy that enables him, when the proper time 
comes, to act with great force. Discretion is of prime importance in preparing 
the way for momentous things. Concerning this, Confucius says:

Where disorder develops, words are the first steps. If the prince is not discreet, 
he loses his servant. If the servant is not discreet he loses his life. If 
germinating things are not handled with discretion, the perfecting of them is 
impeded. Therefore the superior man is careful to maintain silence and does 
not go forth.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

When the time for action has come, the moment must be quickly seized. Just 
as water first collects in a lake without flowing out, yet is certain to find an 
outlet when the lake is full, so it is in the life of man. It is a good thing to 
hesitate so long as the time for action has not come, but no longer. Once the 
obstacles to action have been removed, anxious hesitation is a mistake that is 
bound to bring disaster, because one misses one's opportunity.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

If an individual is bent only on pleasures and enjoyment, it is easy for him to 
lose his sense of the limits that are necessary. If he gives himself over to 
extravagance, he will have to suffer the consequences, with accompanying 
regret. He must not seek to lay the blame on others. Only when we realize 
that our mistakes are of our own making will such disagreeable experiences 
free us of errors.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

Every limitation has its value, but a limitation that requires persistent effort 
entails a cost of too much energy. When, however, the limitation is a natural 
one (as for example, the limitation by which water flows only downhill), it 
necessarily leads to success, for then it means a saving of energy. The energy 
that otherwise would be consumed in a vain struggle with the object, is 
applied wholly to the benefit of the matter in hand, and success is assured.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

The limitation must be carried out in the right way if it is to be effective. If we 
seek to impose restrictions on others only, while evading them ourselves, 
these restrictions will always be resented and will provoke resistance. If, 
however, a man in a leading position applies the limitation first to himself, 
demanding little from those associated with him, and with modest means 
manages to achieve something, good fortune is the result. Where such an 
example occurs, it meets with emulation, so that whatever is undertaken 
must succeed.

 The top line marked

If one is too severe in setting up restrictions, people will not endure them.
The more consistent such severity, the worse it is, for in the long run a 
reaction is unavoidable. In the same way, the tormented body will rebel 
against excessive asceticism. On the other hand, although ruthless severity is 
not to be applied persistently and systematically, there may be times when it si 
the only means of safeguarding against guilt and remorse. In such situations 
ruthlessness toward oneself is the only means of saving one's soul, which 
otherwise would succumb to irresolution and temptation.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Water upon Lake

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

