010100
I Ching Hexagram 39.
Chien / Obstruction

Upper trigram: K'an The Abysmal, Water

Lower trigram: Kên Keeping Still, Mountain

The Judgement

Obstruction. The southwest furthers.

The northeast does not further.

It furthers one to see the great man.

Perseverance brings good fortune.

The Image

Water on the mountain:

The image of Obstruction.

Thus the superior man turns his attention to himself

And molds his character.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Going leads to obstructions,

Coming meets with praise.

The 2nd line marked means:

The king's servant is beset by obstruction upon obstruction,

But it is not his own fault.

The 3rd line marked means:

Going leads to obstructions;

Hence he comes back.

The 4th line marked means:

Going leads to obstructions,

Coming leads to union.

The 5th line marked means:

In the midst of the greatest obstructions,

Friends come.

The top line marked means:

Going leads to obstructions,

Coming leads to great good fortune.

It furthers one to see the great man.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

The hexagram pictures a dangerous abyss lying before us and a steep, 
inaccessible mountain rising behind us. We are surrounded by obstacles; at 
the same time, since the mountain has the attribute of keeping still, there is 
implicit a hint as to how we can extricate ourselves. The hexagram represents 
obstructions that appear in the course of time but that can and should be 
overcome. Therefore all the instruction given is directed to overcoming 
them.

The Judgement

The southwest is the region of retreat, the northeast that of advance. Here an 
individual is confronted by obstacles that cannot be overcome directly. In 
such a situation it is wise to pause in view of the danger and to retreat.
However, this is merely a preparation for overcoming the obstructions. One 
must join forces with friends of like mind and put himself under the 
leadership of a man equal to the situation: then one will succeed in 
removing the obstacles. This requires the will to persevere just when one 
apparently must do something that leads away from his goal. This 
unswerving inner purpose brings good fortune in the end. An obstruction 
that lasts only for a time is useful for self-development. This is the value of 
adversity.

The Image

Difficulties and obstructions throw a man back upon himself. While the 
inferior man seeks to put the blame on other persons, bewailing his fate, the 
superior man seeks the error within himself, and through this introspection 
the external obstacle becomes for him an occasion for inner enrichment and 
education.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

When one encounters an obstruction, the important thing is to reflect on 
how best to deal with it. When threatened with danger, one should not strive 
blindly to go ahead, for this only leads to complications. The correct thing is, 
on the contrary, to retreat for the time being, not in order to give up the 
struggle but to await the right moment for action.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

Ordinarily it is best to go around an obstacle and try to overcome it along the 
line of least resistance. But there is one instance in which a man must go out 
to meet the trouble, even though difficulty piles upon difficulty: this is when 
the path of duty leads directly to it-in other words, when he cannot act of his 
own volition but is duty bound to go and seek out danger in the service of a 
higher cause. Then he may do it without compunction, because it is not 
through any fault of his that he is putting himself in this difficult situation.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

While the preceding line shows the official compelled by duty to follow the 
way of danger, this line shows the man who must act as father of a family or 
as head of his kin. If he were to plunge recklessly in to danger, it would be a 
useless act, because those entrusted to his care cannot get along by themselves.
But if he withdraws and turns back to his own, they welcome him with great 
joy.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

This too describes a situation that cannot be managed single-handed. In such 
a case the direct way is not the shortest. If a person were to forge ahead on his 
own strength and without the necessary preparations, he would not find the 
support he needs and would realize too late that he has been mistaken in his 
calculations, inasmuch as the conditions on which he hoped he could rely 
would prove to be inadequate. In this case it is better, therefore, to hold back 
for the time being and to gather together trustworthy companions who can be 
counted upon for help in overcoming the obstructions.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

Here we see a man who is called to help in an emergency. He should not seek 
to evade the obstructions, no matter how dangerously they pile up before 
him. But because he is really called to the task, the power of his spirit is strong 
enough to attract helpers whom he can effectively organize, so that through 
the well-directed co-operation of all participants the obstruction is overcome.

 The top line marked

This refers to a man who has already left the world and its tumult behind 
him. When the time of obstructions arrives, it might seem that the simplest 
thing for him to do would be to turn his back upon the world and take refuge 
in the beyond. But this road is barred to him. He must not seek his own 
salvation and abandon the world to its adversity. Duty calls him back once 
more into the turmoil of life. Precisely because of his experience and inner 
freedom, he is able to create something both great and complete that brings 
good fortune. And it is favorable to see the great man in alliance with whom 
one can achieve the work of rescue.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Water upon Mountain

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

