010101
I Ching Hexagram 63.
Chi Chi / After Completion

Upper trigram: K'an The Abysmal, Water

Lower trigram: Li The Clinging, Flame

The Judgement

After Completion. Success in small matters.

Perseverance furthers.

At the beginning good fortune,

At the end disorder.

The Image

Water over fire: the image of the condition

In After Completion.

Thus the superior man

Takes thoughts of misfortune

And arms himself against it in advance.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

He brakes his wheels.

He gets his tail in the water.

No blame.

The 2nd line marked means:

The woman loses the curtain of her carriage.

Do not run after it;

On the seventh day you will get it.

The 3rd line marked means:

The Illustrious Ancestor

Disciplines the Devil's Country.

After three years he conquers it.

Inferior people must not be employed.

The 4th line marked means:

The finest clothes turn to rags.

Be careful all day long.

The 5th line marked means:

The neighbor in the east who slaughters an ox

Does not attain as much real happiness

As the neighbor in the west

With his small offering.

The top line marked means:

He gets his head in the water. Danger.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

This hexagram is the evolution of T'ai PEACE (11). The transition from 
confusion to order is completed, and everything is in its proper place even in 
particulars. The strong lines are in the strong places, the weak lines in the 
weak places. This is a very favorable outlook, yet it gives reason for thought.
For it is just when perfect equilibrium has been reached that any movement 
may cause order to revert to disorder. The one strong line that has moved to 
the top, thus effecting complete order in details, is followed by the other lines.
Each moving according to its nature, and thus suddenly there arises again the 
hexagram P'i, STANDSTILL (12).

 Hence the present hexagram indicates the conditions of a time of climax, 
which necessitate the utmost caution.

The Judgement

The transition from the old to the new time is already accomplished. In 
principle, everything stands systematized, and it si only in regard to details 
that success is still to be achieved. In respect to this, however, we must be 
careful to maintain the right attitude. Everything proceeds as if of its own 
accord, and this can all too easily tempt us to relax and let thing take their 
course without troubling over details. Such indifference is the root of all evil.
Symptoms of decay are bound to be the result. Here we have the rule 
indicating the usual course of history. But this rule is not an inescapable law.
He who understands it is in position to avoid its effects by dint of unremitting 
perseverance and caution.

The Image

When water in a kettle hangs over fire, the two elements stand in relation 
and thus generate energy (cf. the production of steam). But the resulting 
tension demands caution. If the water boils over, the fire is extinguished an 
its energy is lost. If the heat is too great, the water evaporates into the air.
These elements here brought in to relation and thus generating energy are by 
nature hostile to each other. Only the most extreme caution can prevent 
damage. In life too there are junctures when all forces are in balance and 
work in harmony, so that everything seems to be in the best of order. In such 
times only the sage recognizes the moments that bode danger and knows how 
to banish it by means of timely precautions.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

In times following a great transition, everything is pressing forward, striving 
in the direction of development and progress. But this pressing forward at 
the beginning is not good; it overshoots the mark and leads with certainty to 
loss and collapse. Therefore a man of strong character does not allow himself 
to be infected by the general intoxication but checks his course in time. He 
may indeed not remain altogether untouched by the disastrous consequences 
of the general pressure, but he is hit only from behind like a fox that, having 
crossed the water, at the last minute gets its tail wet. He will not suffer any 
real harm, because his behavior has been correct.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

When a woman drove out in her carriage, she had a curtain that hid her 
from the glances of the curious. It was regarded as a breach of propriety to 
drive on if this curtain was lost. Applied to public life, this means that a man 
who wants to achieve something is not receiving that confidence of the 
authorities which he needs, so to speak, for his personal protection.
Especially in times "after completion" it may happen that those who have 
come to power grow arrogant and conceited and no longer trouble 
themselves about fostering new talent.

 This as a rule results in office seeking. If a man's superiors withhold their 
trust from him, he will seek ways and means of getting it and of drawing 
attention to himself. We are warned against such an unworthy procedure: 
"Do not seek it." Do not throw yourself away on the world, but wait 
tranquilly and develop your personal worth by your own efforts. Times 
change. When the six stages of the hexagram have passed, the new era 
dawns. That which is a man's own cannot be permanently lost. It comes to 
him of its own accord. He need only be able to wait.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

"Illustrious Ancestor" is the dynastic title of the Emperor Wu Ting of the Yin 
dynasty. After putting his realm in order with a strong hand, he waged long 
colonial wars for the subjection of the Huns who occupied the northern 
borderland with constant threat of incursions.

 The situation described is as follows. After times of completion, when a 
new power has arisen and everything within the country has been set in 
order, a period of colonial expansion almost inevitably follows. Then as a 
rule long-drawn-out struggles must be reckoned with. For this reason, a 
correct colonial policy is especially important. The territory won at such bitter 
cost must not be regarded as an almshouse for people who in one way or 
another have hade themselves impossible at home, but who are thought to 
be quite good enough for the colonies. Such a policy ruins at the outset any 
chance of success. This holds true in small as well as large matters, because it 
is not only rising states that carry on a colonial policy; the urge to expand, 
with its accompanying dangers, is part and parcel of every ambitious 
undertaking.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

In a time of flowering culture, an occasional convulsion is bound to occur, 
uncovering a hidden evil within society and at first causing a great sensation.
But since the situation is favorable on the whole, such evils can easily be 
glossed over and concealed from the public. Then everything is forgotten and 
peace apparently reigns complacently once more. However, to the thoughtful 
man, such occurrences are grave omens that he does not neglect. This is the 
only way of averting evil consequences.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

Religious attitudes are likewise influenced by the spiritual atmosphere 
prevailing in times after completion. In divine worship the simple old forms 
are replaced by an ever more elaborate ritual and an ever greater outward 
display. But inner seriousness is lacking in this show of magnificence; 
human caprice takes the place of conscientious obedience to the divine will.
However, while man sees what is before his eyes, God looks into the heart.
Therefore a simple sacrifice offered with real piety holds a greater blessing 
than an impressive service without warmth.

 The top line marked

Here in conclusion another warning is added. After crossing a stream, a 
man's head can get into the water only if he is so imprudent as to turn back.
As long as he goes forward and does not look back, he escapes this danger.
But there is a fascination in standing still and looking back on a peril 
overcome. However, such vain self-admiration brings misfortune. It leads 
only to danger, and unless one finally resolves to go forward without 
pausing, one falls a victim to this danger.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Water upon Flame

This is an odd constellation: water above the flame. Instability, indeed. If the water falls, it will extinguish the flame. If it doesn't, the flame will by time turn the water into steam. Still, the name of the hexagram is After Completion, as if nothing more can happen. But of course it can.

 The completion of which this I Ching hexagram speaks is an action or decision. When that choice is made, then the future unfolds accordingly. There will be consequences, whether they are expected or surprising, intended or unwanted. Things will evolve out of any choice made, any action taken.

 The hexagram warns that one should prepare for those consequences. We tend to tell ourselves that we fix a problem and then it's gone. But in reality, any fix is bound to create new problems, sooner or later. There is no permanent solution in this world of constant change. So, at the moment of decision, consider what may be the long-time result.

 The future is hidden in a thick mist. Anything can happen. This is suggested by this hexagram's water hovering above. The water trigram carries the concept of the primordial sea of chaos out of which the world was once born, according to many creation myths. If it falls and extinguishes the flame, then there is darkness and we have no way of controlling what comes next.

 On the other hand, a flame can catch on and leave the world in ashes. So, the water above can be the rain that stops the forest fire. A savior against hasty decisions and their danger of creating mayhem.

 Although fire can also be a destrutive force, here the flame is what light we have to guide us, as well as the power to resist blind fate. It stands for what we can do to avoid chaos, and how haphazard this resource is. So, we should be humble about our abilities — and take precautions.

Yin and Yang Significances

The hexagram has an equal number of Yin (broken) and Yang (full) lines, arranged in pairs. The basic forces of the world are in balance, although not by trigram but for the hexagram as a whole. And in each pair the Yin (earth) line is above the Yang (heaven) one, which is an oddity suggesting instability. The exact nature of this balance is not fixed forever. Still, they make a complete whole, and there is power to it, akin to that of electricity where plus and minus interact. Indeed, the hexagram is one of potency for change, not necessarily from chaos to order.

