011000
I Ching Hexagram 45.
Ts'ui / Gathering Together (Massing)

Upper trigram: Tui The Joyous, Lake

Lower trigram: K'un The Receptive, Earth

The Judgement

Gathering Together. Success.

The king approaches his temple.

It furthers one to see the great man.

This brings success. Perseverance furthers.

To bring great offerings creates good fortune.

It furthers one to undertake something.

The Image

Over the earth, the lake:

The image of Gathering Together.

Thus the superior man renews his weapons

In order to meet the unforseen.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

If you are sincere, but not to the end,

There will sometimes be confusion, sometimes gathering together.

If you call out,

Then after one grasp of the hand you can laugh again.

Regret not. Going is without blame.

The 2nd line marked means:

Letting oneself be drawn

Brings good fortune and remains blameless.

If one is sincere,

It furthers one to bring even a small offering.

The 3rd line marked means:

Gathering together amid sighs.

Nothing that would not further.

Going is without blame.

Slight humiliation.

The 4th line marked means:

Great good fortune. No blame.

The 5th line marked means:

If in gathering together one has position,

This brings no blame.

If there are some who are not yet sincere in the work,

Sublime and enduring perseverance is needed.

Then remorse disappears.

The top line marked means:

Lamenting and sighing, floods of tears.

No blame.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

This hexagram is related in form and meaning to Pi, HOLDING TOGETHER 
(8). In the latter, water is over the earth; here a lake is over the earth. But 
since the lake is a place where water collects, the idea of gathering together is 
even more strongly expressed here than in the other hexagram. The same 
idea also arises from the fact that in the present case it is two strong lines (the 
fourth and the fifth) that bring about the gather together, whereas in the 
former case one strong line (the fifth) stands in the midst of weak lines.

The Judgement

The gathering together of people in large communities is either a natural 
occurrence, as in the case of the family, or an artificial one, as in the case of 
the state. The family gathers about the father as its head. The perpetuation of 
this gathering in groups is achieved through the sacrifice to the ancestors, at 
which the whole clan is gathered together. Through the collective piety of 
the living members of the family, the ancestors become so integrated in the 
spiritual life of the family that it cannot be dispersed or dissolved.

 Where men are to be gathered together, religious forces are needed. But 
there must also be a human leader to serve as the center of the group. In 
order to be able to bring others together, this leader must first of all be 
collected within himself. Only collective moral force can unite the world.
Such great times of unification will leave great achievements behind them.
This is the significance of the great offerings that are made. In the secular 
sphere likewise there is no need of great deeds in the time of GATHERING 
TOGETHER.

The Image

If the water in the lake gathers until it rises above the earth, there is danger of 
a break-through. Precautions must be taken to prevent this. Similarly where 
men gather together in great numbers, strife is likely to arise; where 
possessions are collected, robbery is likely to occur. Thus in the time of 
GATHERING TOGETHER we must arm promptly to ward off the unexpected.
Human woes usually come as a result of unexpected events against which we 
are not forearmed. If we are prepared, they can be prevented.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

The situation is this: People desire to gather around a leader to whom they 
look up. But they are in a large group, by which they allow themselves to be 
influenced, so that they waver in their decision. Thus they lack a firm center 
around which to gather. But if expression is given to this need, and if they 
call for help, one grasp of the hand from the leader is enough to turn away all 
distress. Therefore they must not allow themselves to be led astray. It is 
undoubtedly right that they should attach themselves to this leader.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

In the time of GATHERING TOGETHER, we should make no arbitrary choice 
of the way. There are secret forces at work, leading together those who belong 
together. We must yield to this attraction; then we make no mistakes.
Where inner relationships exist, no great preparations and formalities are 
necessary. People understand one another forthwith, just as the Divinity 
graciously accepts a small offering if it comes from the heart.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

Often a man feels an urge to unite with others, but the individuals around 
him have already formed themselves into a group, so that he remains 
isolated. The whole situation proves untenable. Then he ought to choose 
the way of progress, resolutely allying himself with a man who stands nearer 
to the center of the group, and can help him to gain admission to the closed 
circle. This is not a mistake, even though at first his position as an outsider is 
somewhat humiliating.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

This describes a man who gathers people around him in the name of his 
ruler. Since he is not striving for any special advantages for himself but is 
working unselfishly to bring about general unity, his work is crowned with 
success, and everything becomes as it should be.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

When people spontaneously gather around a man, it is only a good. It gives 
him a certain influence that can be altogether useful.. But of course there is 
also the possibility that many may gather around him not because of a feeling 
of confidence but merely because of his influential position. This is certainly 
to be regretted. The only means of dealing with such people is to gain their 
confidence through steadfastness an intensified, unswerving devotion to 
duty. In this way secret mistrust will gradually be overcome, and there will be 
no occasion for regret.

 The top line marked

It may happen that an individual would like to ally himself with another, but 
his good intentions are misunderstood. Then he becomes sad and laments.
But this is the right course. For it may cause the other person to come to his 
senses, so that the alliance that has been sought and so painfully missed is 
after all achieved.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Lake upon Earth

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

