011010
I Ching Hexagram 47.
K'un / Oppression (Exhaustion)

Upper trigram: Tui The Joyous, Lake

Lower trigram: K'an The Abysmal, Water

The Judgement

Oppression. Success. Perseverance.

The great man brings about good fortune.

No blame.

When one has something to say,

It is not believed.

The Image

There is no water in the lake:

The image of Exhaustion.

Thus the superior man stakes his life

On following his will.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

One sits oppressed under a bare tree

And strays into a gloomy valley.

For three years one sees nothing.

The 2nd line marked means:

One is oppressed while at meat and drink.

The man with the scarlet knee bands is just coming.

It furthers one to offer sacrifice.

To set forth brings misfortune.

No blame.

The 3rd line marked means:

A man permits himself to be oppressed by stone,

And leans on thorns and thistles.

He enters his house and does not see his wife.

Misfortune.

The 4th line marked means:

He comes very quietly, oppressed in a golden carriage.

Humiliation, but the end is reached.

The 5th line marked means:

His nose and feet are cut off.

Oppression at the hands of the man with the purple knee bands.

Joy comes softly.

It furthers one to make offerings and libations.

The top line marked means:

He is oppressed by creeping vines.

He moves uncertainly and says, "Movement brings remorse."

If one feels remorse over this and makes a start,

Good fortune comes.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

The lake is above, water below; the lake is empty, dried up. Exhaustion is 
expressed in yet another way: at the top, a dark line is holding down two light 
line; below, a light line is hemmed in between two dark ones. The upper 
trigram belongs to the principle of darkness, the lower to the principle of 
light. Thus everywhere superior men are oppressed and held in restraint by 
inferior men.

The Judgement

Times of adversity are the reverse of times of success, but they can lead to 
success if they; befall the right man. When a strong man meets with 
adversity, he remains cheerful despite all danger, and this cheerfulness is the 
source of later successes; it is that stability which is stronger than fate. He who 
lets his spirit be broken by exhaustion certainly has no success. But if 
adversity only bends a man, it creates in him a power to react that is bound in 
time to manifest itself. No inferior man is capable of this. Only the great 
man brings about goof fortune and remains blameless. It is true that for the 
time being outward influence is denied him, because his words have no 
effect. Therefore in times of adversity it is important to be strong within and 
sparing of words.

The Image

When the water has flowed out below, the lake must dry up and become 
exhausted. That is fate. This symbolizes an adverse fate in human life. In 
such times there is nothing a man can do but acquiesce in his fate and remain 
true to himself. This concerns the deepest stratum of his being, for this alone 
is superior to all external fate.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

When adversity befalls a man, it is important above all things for him to be 
strong and to overcome the trouble inwardly. If he is weak, the trouble 
overwhelms him. Instead of proceeding on his way, he remains sitting under 
a bare tree and falls ever more deeply into gloom and melancholy. This 
makes the situation only more and more hopeless. Such an attitude comes 
from an inner delusion that he must by all means overcome.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

This pictures a state of inner oppression. Externally, all is well, one has meat 
and drink. But one is exhausted by the commonplaces of life, and there 
seems to be no way of escape. Then help comes from a high place. A prince-
in ancient China princes wore scarlet knee bands- is in search of able helpers.
But there are still obstructions to be overcome. Therefore it is important to 
meet these obstructions in the visible realm by offerings and prayer. To set 
forth without being prepared would be disastrous, though not morally wrong.
Here a disagreeable situation must be overcome by patience of spirit.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

This shows a man who is restless and indecisive in times of adversity. At 
first he wants to push ahead, then he encounters obstructions that, it is true, 
mean oppression only when recklessly dealt with. He butts his head against a 
wall and in consequence feels himself oppressed by the wall. Then he leans 
on things that have in themselves no stability and that are merely a hazard 
for him who leans on them. Thereupon he turns back irresolutely and 
retires into his house, only to find, as a fresh disappointment, that his wife is 
not there. Confucius says about this line: 

If a man permits himself to be oppressed by something that ought not to 
oppress him, his name will certainly be disgraced. If he leans on things upon 
which one cannot lean, his life will certainly be endangered. For him who is 
in disgrace and danger, the hour of death draws near; how can he then still 
see his wife?

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

A well-to-do man sees the need of the lower classes and would like very 
much to be of help. But instead of proceeding with speed and energy where 
their is need, he begins in a hesitant and measured way. Then he encounters 
obstructions. Powerful and wealthy acquaintances draw him into their circle; 
he has to do as they do and cannot withdraw from them. Hence he finds 
himself in great embarrassment. But the trouble is transitory. The original 
strength of his nature offsets the mistake he has made, and the goal is 
reached.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

An individual who has the good of mankind at heart is oppressed from 
above and below (this is the meaning of the cutting off of nose an defeat). He 
finds no help among the people whose duty it would be to aid in the work of 
rescue (ministers wore purple knee bands). But little by little, things take a 
turn for the better. Until that time, he should turn to God, firm in his inner 
composure, and pray and offer sacrifice for the general well-being.

 The top line marked

A man is oppressed by bonds that can easily be broken. The distress is 
drawing to an end. But he is still irresolute; he is still influenced by the 
previous condition and fears that he may have cause for regret if he makes a 
move. But as soon as he grasps the situation, changes this mental attitude, 
and makes a firm decision, he masters the oppression.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Lake upon Water

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

