011101
I Ching Hexagram 49.
Ko / Revolution (Molting)

Upper trigram: Tui The Joyous, Lake

Lower trigram: Li The Clinging, Flame

The Judgement

Revolution. On your own day

You are believed.

Supreme success.

Furthering through perseverance.

Remorse disappears.

The Image

Fire in the lake: the image of Revolution.

Thus the superior man

Sets the calendar in order.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Wrapped in the hide of a yellow cow.

The 2nd line marked means:

When one's own day comes, one may create revolution.

Starting brings good fortune. No blame.

The 3rd line marked means:

Starting brings misfortune.

Perseverance brings danger.

When the talk of revolution has gone the rounds three times,

One may commit himself,

And men will believe him.

The 4th line marked means:

Remorse disappears. Men believe him.

Changing the form of government brings good fortune.

The 5th line marked means:

The great man changes like a tiger.

Even before he questions the oracle

He is believed.

The top line marked means:

The superior man changes like a panther.

The inferior man molts in the face.

Starting brings misfortune.

To remain persevering brings good fortune.

And makes the seasons clear.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

The Chinese character for this hexagram means in its original sense an 
animal's pelt, which is changed in the course of the year by molting. From 
this word is carried over to apply to the "moltings" in political life, the great 
revolutions connected with changes of governments.

 The two trigrams making up the hexagram are the same two that appear in 
K'uei, OPPOSITION (38), that is, the two younger daughters, Li and Tui. But 
while there the elder of the two daughters is above, and what results is 
essentially only an opposition of tendencies, here the younger daughter is 
above. The influences are in actual conflict, and the forces combat each other 
like fire and water (lake), each trying to destroy the other. Hence the idea of 
revolution.

The Judgement

Political revolutions are extremely grave matters. They should be undertaken 
only under stress of direst necessity, when there is no other way out. Not 
everyone is called to this task, but only the man who has the confidence of 
the people, and even he only when the time is ripe. He must then proceed in 
the right way, so that he gladdens the people and, by enlightening them, 
prevents excesses. Furthermore, he must be quite free of selfish aims and 
must really relieve the need of the people. Only then does he have nothing to 
regret.

 Times change, and with them their demands. Thus the seasons change in 
the course of the year. In the world cycle also there are spring and autumn in 
the life of peoples and nations, and these call for social transformations.

The Image

Fire below and the lake above combat and destroy each other. So too in the 
course of the year a combat takes place between the forces of light and the 
forces of darkness, eventuating in the revolution of the seasons, and man is 
able to adjust himself in advance to the demands of the different times.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

Changes ought to be undertaken only when there is nothing else to be done.
Therefore at first the utmost restraint is necessary. One must becomes firm in 
one's mind, control oneself-yellow is the color of the means, and the cow is 
the symbol of docility-and refrain from doing anything for the time being, 
because any premature offensive will bring evil results.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

When we have tried in every other way to bring about reforms, but without 
success, revolution becomes necessary. But such a thoroughgoing upheaval 
must be carefully prepared. There must be available a man who has the 
requisite abilities and who possesses public confidence. To such a man we 
may well turn. This brings good fortune and is not a mistake. The first thing 
to be considered is our inner attitude toward the new condition that will 
inevitably come. We have to go out to meet it, as it were. Only in this way 
can it be prepared for.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

When change is necessary, there are two mistakes to be avoided. One lies in 
excessive haste and ruthlessness, which bring disaster. The other lies in 
excessive hesitation and conservatism, which are also dangerous. Not every 
demand for change in the existing order should be heeded. On the other 
hand, repeated and well-founded complaints should not fail of a hearing.
When talk of change has come to one's ears three times, and has been 
pondered well, he may believe and acquiesce in it. Then he will meet with 
belief and will accomplish something.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

Radical changes require adequate authority. A man must have inner strength 
as well as influential position. What he does must correspond with a higher 
truth and must not spring from arbitrary or petty motives; then it brings great 
good fortune. If a revolution is not founded on such inner truth, the results 
are bad, and it has no success. For in the end men will support only those 
undertakings which they feel instinctively to be just.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

A tigerskin, with its highly visible black stripes on a yellow ground, shows its 
distinct pattern from afar. It is the same with a revolution brought about by a 
great man: large, clear guiding lines become visible, understandable to 
everyone. Therefore he need not first consult the oracle, for he wins the 
spontaneous support of the people.

 The top line marked

After the large and fundamental problems are settled, certain minor reforms, 
and elaborations of these, are necessary. These detailed reforms may be 
likened to the equally distinct but relatively small marks of the panther's coat.
As a consequence, a change also takes place among the inferior people. In 
conformity with the new order, they likewise "molt." This molting, it is true, 
does not go very deep, but that is not to be expected. We must be satisfied 
with the attainable. If we should go too far and try to achieve too much, it 
would lead to unrest and misfortune. For the object of a great revolution is 
the attainment of clarified, secure conditions ensuring a general stabilization 
on the basis of what is possible at the moment.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Lake upon Flame

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

