100010
I Ching Hexagram 4.
Mêng / Youthful Folly

Upper trigram: Kên Keeping Still, Mountain

Lower trigram: K'an The Abysmal, Water

The Judgement

Youthful Folly has success.

It is not I who seek the young fool;

The young fool seeks me.

At the first oracle I inform him.

If he asks two or three times, it is importunity.

If he importunes, I give him no information.

Perseverance furthers.

The Image

A spring wells up at the foot of the mountain:

The image of Youth.

Thus the superior man fosters his character

By thoroughness in all that he does.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

To make a fool develop

It furthers one to apply discipline.

The fetters should be removed.

To go on in this way brings humiliation.

The 2nd line marked means:

To bear with fools in kindliness brings good fortune.

To know how to take women

Brings good fortune.

The son is capable of taking charge of the household.

The 3rd line marked means:

Take not a maiden who, when she sees a man of bronze,

Loses possession of herself.

Nothing furthers.

The 4th line marked means:

Entangled folly brings humiliation.

The 5th line marked means:

Childlike folly brings good fortune.

The top line marked means:

In punishing folly

It does not further one

To commit transgressions.

The only thing that furthers

Is to prevent transgressions.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

In this hexagram we are reminded of youth and folly in two different ways.
The image of the upper trigram, Kên, is the mountain, that of the lower, 
K'an, is water; the spring rising at the foot of the mountain is the image of 
inexperienced youth. Keeping still is the attribute of the upper trigram; that of 
the lower is the abyss, danger. Stopping in perplexity on the brink of a 
dangerous abyss is a symbol of the folly of youth. However, the two trigrams 
also show the way of overcoming the follies of youth. Water is something 
that of necessity flows on. When the spring gushes forth, it does not know at 
first where it will go. But its steady flow fills up the deep place blocking its 
progress, and success is attained.

The Judgement

In the time of youth, folly is not an evil. One may succeed in spite of it, 
provided one finds an experienced teacher and has the right attitude toward 
him. This means, first of all, that the youth himself must be conscious of his 
lack of experience and must seek out the teacher. Without this modesty and 
this interest there is no guarantee that he has the necessary receptivity, which 
should express itself in respectful acceptance of the teacher. This is the reason 
why the teacher must wait to be sought out instead of offering himself. Only 
thus can the instruction take place at the right time and in the right way.

 A teacher's answer to the question of a pupil ought to be clear and definite 
like that expected from an oracle; thereupon it ought to be accepted as a key 
for resolution of doubts and a basis for decision. If mistrustful or 
unintelligent questioning is kept up, it serves only to annoy the teacher. He 
does well to ignore it in silence, just as the oracle gives one answer only and 
refuses to be tempted by questions implying doubt.

 Given addition a perseverance that never slackens until the points are 
mastered one by one, real success is sure to follow. Thus the hexagram 
counsels the teacher as well as the pupil.

The Image

A spring succeeds in flowing on and escapes stagnation by filling up all the 
hollow places in its path. In the same way character is developed by 
thoroughness that skips nothing but, like water, gradually and steadily fills up 
all gaps and so flows onward.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

Law is the beginning of education. Youth in its inexperience is inclined at first 
to take everything carelessly and playfully. It must be shown the seriousness 
of life. A certain measure of taking oneself in hand, brought about by strict 
discipline, is a good thing. He who plays with life never amounts to 
anything. However, discipline should not degenerate into drill. Continuous 
drill has a humiliating effect and cripples a man's powers.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

These lines picture a man who has no external power, but who has enough 
strength of mind to bear his burden of responsibility. He has the inner 
superiority and that enable him to tolerate with kindliness the shortcomings 
of human folly. The same attitude is owed to women as the weaker sex. One 
must understand them and give them recognition in a spirit of chivalrous 
consideration. Only this combination of inner strength with outer reserve 
enables one to take on the responsibility of directing a larger social body with 
real success.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

A weak, inexperienced man, struggling to rise, easily loses his own 
individuality when he slavishly imitates a strong personality of higher 
station. He is like a girl throwing herself away when she meets a strong man.
Such a servile approach should not be encouraged, because it is bad both for 
the youth and the teacher. A girl owes it to her dignity to wait until she is 
wooed. In both cases it is undignified to offer oneself, and no good comes of 
accepting such an offer.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

For youthful folly it is the most hopeless thing to entangle itself in empty 
imaginings. The more obstinately it clings to such unreal fantasies, the more 
certainly will humiliation overtake it.
 Often the teacher, when confronted with such entangled folly, has no other 
course but to leave the fool to himself for a time, not sparing him the 
humiliation that results. This is frequently the only means of rescue.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

An inexperienced person who seeks instruction in a childlike and 
unassuming way is on the right path, for the man devoid of arrogance who 
subordinated himself to his teacher will certainly be helped.

 The top line marked

Sometimes an incorrigible fool must be punished. He who will not heed will 
be made to feel. This punishment is quite different from a preliminary 
shaking up. But the penalty should not be imposed in anger; it must be 
restricted to an objective guarding against unjustified excesses. Punishment 
is never an end in itself but serves merely to restore order.

 This applies not only in regard to education but also in regard to the 
measures taken by a government against a populace guilty of transgressions.
Governmental interference should always be merely preventive and should 
have as its sole aim the establishment of public security and peace.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Mountain upon Water

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

