100110
I Ching Hexagram 18.
Ku / Work on What Has Been Spoiled (Decay)

Upper trigram: Kên Keeping Still, Mountain

Lower trigram: Sun The Gentle, Wind, Wood

The Judgement

Work on What Has Been Spoiled

Has supreme success.

It furthers one to cross the great water.

Before the starting point, three days.

After the starting point, three days.

The Image

The wind blows low on the mountain:

The image of Decay.

Thus the superior man stirs up the people

And strengthens their spirit.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Setting right what has been spoiled by the father.

If there is a son,

No blame rests upon the departed father.

Danger. In the end good fortune.

The 2nd line marked means:

Setting right what has been spoiled by the mother.

One must not be too persevering.

The 3rd line marked means:

Setting right what has been spoiled by the father.

There will be little remorse. No great blame.

The 4th line marked means:

Tolerating what has been spoiled by the father.

In continuing one sees humiliation.

The 5th line marked means:

Setting right what has been spoiled by the father.

One meets with praise.

The top line marked means:

He does not serve kings and princes,

Sets himself higher goals.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

The Chinese character ku represents a bowl in whose contents worms are 
breeding. This means decay. It is come about because the gentle indifference 
in the lower trigram has come together with the rigid inertia of the upper, 
and the result is stagnation. Since this implies guilt, the conditions embody a 
demand for removal of the cause. Hence the meaning of the hexagram is not 
simply "what has been spoiled" but "work on what has been spoiled".

The Judgement

What has been spoiled through man's fault can be made good again through 
man's work. IT is not immutable fate, as in the time of STANDSTILL, that 
has caused the state of corruption, but rather the abuse of human freedom.
Work toward improving conditions promises well, because it accords the 
possibilities of the time. We must not recoil from work and danger-
symbolized by crossing of the great water-but must take hold energetically.
Success depends, however, on proper deliberation. This is expressed by the 
lines, "Before the starting point, three days. After the starting point, three 
days." We must first know the cause of corruption before we can do away 
with them; hence it is necessary to be cautious during the time before the 
start. Then we must see to it that the new way is safely entered upon, so that 
a relapse may be avoided; therefore we must pay attention to the time after 
the start. Decisiveness and energy must take the place of inertia and 
indifference that have led to decay, in order that the ending may be followed 
by a new beginning.

The Image

When the wind blow s slow on the mountain, it is thrown back and spoils 
the vegetation. This contains a challenge to improvement. It is the same 
with debasing attitudes and fashions; they corrupt human society. His 
methods likewise must be derived from the two trigrams, but in such a way 
that their effects unfold in orderly sequence. The superior must first remove 
stagnation by stirring up public opinion, as the wind stirs up everything, and 
must strengthen and tranquilize the character of the people, as the mountain 
gives tranquillity and nourishment to all that grows in its vicinity.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

Rigid adherence to tradition has resulted in decay. But the decay has not yet 
penetrated deeply and so can still be easily remedied. It is as if a son were 
compensated for the decay his father allowed to creep in. Then no blame 
attaches to the father. However, one must not overlook the danger or take 
the matter too lightly. Only if one is conscious of the danger connected with 
every reform will everything go well in the end.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

This refers to mistakes that as a result of weakness have brought about decay-
hence the symbol, "what has been spoiled by the mother. " In setting things 
right in such a case, a certain gentle consideration is called for. In order not to 
wound, one should not attempt to proceed too drastically.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

This describes a man who proceeds a little too energetically in righting the 
mistakes of the past. Now and then, as a result, minor discourse and 
annoyances will surely develop. But too much energy is better than too little.
Therefore, although he may at times have slight cause for regret, he remains 
free of any serious blame.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

This shows the situation of someone too weak to take measures against decay 
that has its roots in the past and is just beginning to manifest itself. It is 
allowed to run its course. If this continues, humiliation will result.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

An individual is confronted with corruption originating from neglect in 
former times. He lacks the power to ward it off alone, but with able helpers 
he can at least bring about a thorough reform, if he cannot create a new 
beginning, and this also is praiseworthy.

 The top line marked

Not every man has an obligation to mingle in the affairs of the world. There 
are some who are developed to such a degree that they are justified in letting 
the world go its own way and refusing to enter public life with a view to 
reforming it. But this does not imply a right to remain idle or to sit back and 
merely criticize. Such withdrawal is justified only when we strive to realize 
in ourselves the higher aims of mankind. For although the sage remains 
distant from the turmoil of daily life, he creates incomparable human values 
for the future.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Mountain upon Wind

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

