101000
I Ching Hexagram 35.
Chin / Progress

Upper trigram: Li The Clinging, Flame

Lower trigram: K'un The Receptive, Earth

The Judgement

Progress. The powerful prince

Is honored with horses in large numbers.

In a single day he is granted audience three times.

The Image

The sun rises over the earth:

The image of Progress.

Thus the superior man himself

Brightens his bright virtue

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Progressing, but turning back.

Perseverance brings good fortune.

If one meets with no confidence, one should remain calm.

No mistake.

The 2nd line marked means:

Progressing, but in sorrow.

Perseverance brings good fortune.

Then one obtains happiness from one's ancestress.

The 3rd line marked means:

All are in accord. Remorse disappears.

The 4th line marked means:

Progress like a hamster.

Perseverance brings danger.

The 5th line marked means:

Remorse disappears.

Take not gain and loss to heart.

Undertakings bring good fortune.

Everything serves to further.

The top line marked means:

Making progress with the horns is permissible

Only for the purpose of punishing one's own city.

To be conscious of danger brings good fortune.

No blame.

Perseverance brings humiliation.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

The hexagram represents the sun rising over the earth. It is therefore the 
symbol of rapid, easy progress, which at the same time means ever widening 
expansion and clarity.

The Judgement

As an example of progress, this pictures a time when a powerful feudal lord 
rallies the other lords around the sovereign and pledges fealty and peace. The 
sovereign rewards him richly and invites him to a closer intimacy.

 A twofold idea is set forth here. The actual effect of the progress emanates 
from a man who is in a dependent position and whom the others regard as 
their equal and are therefore willing to follow. This leader has enough clarity 
of vision not to abuse his great influence but to use it rather for the benefit of 
his ruler. His ruler in turn is free of all jealousy, showers presents on the 
great man, and invites him continually to his court. An enlightened ruler 
and an obedient servant — this is the condition on which great progress 
depends.

The Image

The light of the sun rises over the earth is by nature clear. The higher the sun 
rises, the more it emerges from the dark mists, spreading the pristine purity 
of its rays over an ever widening area. The real nature of man is likewise 
originally good, but it becomes clouded by contact with earthly things and 
therefore needs purification before it can shine forth in its native clarity.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

At a time when all elements are pressing for progress, we are still uncertain 
whether in the course of advance we may not meet with a rebuff. Then the 
thing to do is simply continue in what is right; in the end this will bring good 
fortune. It may be that we meet with no confidence. In this case we ought not 
to try to win confidence regardless of the situation, but should remain calm 
and cheerful and refuse to be roused to anger. Thus we remain free of 
mistakes.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

Progress is halted; an individual is kept from getting in touch with the man 
in authority with whom he has a connection. When this happens, he must 
remain persevering, although he is grieved; then with a maternal gentleness 
the man in question will bestow great happiness upon him. This happiness 
comes to him-and is well deserved-because in this case mutual attraction does 
not rest on selfish or partisan motives but on firm and correct principles.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

A man strives onward, in association with others whose backing encourages 
him. This dispels any cause for regret over the fact that he does not have 
enough independence to triumph unaided over every hostile turn of fate.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

In times of progress it is easy for strong men in the wrong places to amass 
great possessions. But such conduct shuns the light. And since times of 
progress are inevitably brought to the light, perseverance in such action 
always leads to danger.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

The situation described here is that of one who, finding himself in an 
influential position in a time of progress, remains gentle and reserved. He 
might reproach himself for lack of energy in making the most of the 
propitiousness of the time and obtaining all possible advantage. However, 
this regret passes away. He must not take either loss or gain to heart; they are 
minor considerations. What matters much more is the fact that in this way 
he has assured himself of opportunities for successful and beneficent 
influence.

 The top line marked

Making progress with lowered horns-i.e., acting on the offensive-is 
permissible, in times like those referred to here, only in dealing with the 
mistakes of one's own people. Even then we must bear in mind that 
proceeding on the offensive may always be dangerous. In this way we avoid 
the mistakes that otherwise threaten, and succeed in what we set out to do.
On the other hand, perseverance in such over energetic behavior, especially 
toward persons with whom there is no close connection, will lead to 
humiliation.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Flame upon Earth

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

