110010
I Ching Hexagram 59.
Huan / Dispersion (Dissolution)

Upper trigram: Sun The Gentle, Wind, Wood

Lower trigram: K'an The Abysmal, Water

The Judgement

Dispersion. Success.

The king approaches his temple.

It furthers one to cross the great water.

Perseverance furthers.

The Image

The wind drives over the water:

The image of Dispersion.

Thus the kings of old sacrificed to the Lord

And built temples.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

He brings help with the strength of a horse.

Good fortune.

The 2nd line marked means:

At the dissolution

He hurries to that which supports him.

Remorse disappears.

The 3rd line marked means:

He dissolves his self. No remorse.

The 4th line marked means:

He dissolves his bond with his group.

Supreme good fortune.

Dispersion leads in turn to accumulation.

This is something that ordinary men do not think of.

The 5th line marked means:

His loud cries are as dissolving as sweat.

Dissolution! A king abides without blame.

The top line marked means:

He dissolves his blood.

Departing, keeping at a distance, going out,

Is without blame.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

Wind blowing over water disperses it, dissolving it into foam and mist. This 
suggests that when a man's vital energy is dammed up within him (indicated 
as a danger by the attribute of the lower trigram), gentleness serves to break 
up and dissolve the blockage.

The Judgement

The text of this hexagram resembles that of Ts'ui, GATHERING TOGETHER 
(45). In the latter, the subject is the bringing together of elements that have 
been separated, as water collects in lakes upon the earth. Here the subject is 
the dispersing and dissolving of divisive egotism. DISPERSION shows the 
way, so to speak, that leads to gathering together. This explains the similarity 
of the two texts.

 Religious forces are needed to overcome the egotism that divides men. The 
common celebration of the great sacrificial feasts and sacred rites, which gave 
expression simultaneously to the interrelation and social articulation of the 
family and state, was the means of employed by the great ruler to unite men.
The sacred music and the splendor of the ceremonies aroused a strong tide of 
emotion that was shared by all hearts in unison, and that awakened a 
consciousness of the common origin of all creatures. In this way disunity was 
overcome and rigidity dissolved. A further means to the same end is co-
operation in great general undertakings that set a high goal for the will of the 
people; in the common concentration on this goal, all barriers dissolve, just 
as, when a boat is crossing a great stream, all hands must unite in a joint task.

 But only a man who is himself free of all selfish ulterior considerations, and 
who perseveres in justice and steadfastness, is capable of so dissolving the 
hardness of egotism.

The Image

In the autumn and winter, water begins to freeze into ice. When the warm 
breezes of spring come, the rigidity is dissolved, and the elements that have 
been dispersed in ice floes are reunited. It is the same with the minds of the 
people. Through hardness and selfishness the heart grows rigid, and this 
rigidity leads to separation from all others. Egotism and cupidity isolate men.
Therefore the hearts of men must be seized by a devout emotion. They must 
be shaken by a religious awe in face of eternity-stirred with an intuition of the 
One Creator of all living beings, and united through the strong feeling of 
fellowship experienced in the ritual of divine worship.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

It is important that disunion should be overcome at the outset, before it has 
become complete-that the clouds should be dispersed before they have 
brought storm and rain. At such times when hidden divergences in temper 
make themselves felt and lead to mutual misunderstandings we must take 
quick and vigorous action to dissolve the misunderstandings and mutual 
distrust.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

When an individual discovers within himself the beginnings of alienation 
from others, of misanthropy and ill humor, he must set about dissolving 
these obstructions. He must rouse himself inwardly, hasten to that which 
supports him. Such support is never found in hatred, but always in a 
moderate and just judgment of men, linked with good will. If he regains this 
unobstructed outlook on humanity, while at the same time all saturnine ill 
humor is dissolved, all occasion for remorse disappears.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

Under certain circumstances, a man's work may become so difficult that he 
can no longer think of himself. He must set aside all personal desires and 
disperse whatever the self gathers about it to serve as a barrier against others.
Only on the basis of great renunciation can he obtain the strength for great 
achievements. By setting his goal in a great task outside himself, he can 
attain this standpoint.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

When we are working at a task that affects the general welfare, we must leave 
all private friendships out of account. Only by rising above party interests can 
we achieve something decisive. He who has the courage thus to forego what 
is near wins what is afar. But in order to comprehend this standpoint, one 
must have a wide view of the interrelationships of life, such as only unusual 
men attain.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

In times of general dispersion and separation, a great idea provides a focal 
point for the organization of recovery. Just as an illness reaches its crisis in a 
dissolving sweat, so a great stimulating idea is a true salvation in times of 
general deadlock. It gives the people a rallying point-a man in a ruling 
position who can dispel misunderstandings.

 The top line marked

The idea of the dissolving of a man's blood means the dispersion of that 
which might lead to bloodshed and wounds, i.e., avoidance of danger. But 
here the thought is not that a man avoids difficulties for himself alone, but 
rather that he rescues his kin-helps them to get away before danger comes, or 
to keep at a distance from an existing danger, or to find a way out of a danger 
that is already upon them. In this way he does what is right.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Wind upon Water

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

