111000
I Ching Hexagram 12.
P'i / Standstill (Stagnation)

Upper trigram: Ch'ien The Creative, Heaven

Lower trigram: K'un The Receptive, Earth

The Judgement

Standstill. Evil people do not further

The perseverance of the superior man.

The great departs; the small approaches.

The Image

Heaven and earth do not unite:

The image of Standstill.

Thus the superior man falls back upon his inner worth

In order to escape the difficulties.

He does not permit himself to be honored with revenue.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

When the ribbon grass is pulled up, the sod comes with it.

Each according to his kind.

Perseverance brings good fortune and success.

The 2nd line marked means:

They bear and endure;

This means good fortune for inferior people.

The standstill serves to help the great man attain success.

The 3rd line marked means:

They bear shame.

The 4th line marked means:

He who acts at the command of the highest

Remains without blame.

Those of like mind partake of the blessing.

The 5th line marked means:

Standstill is giving way.

Good fortune for the great man.

"What if it should fail, what if it should fail?"

In this way, he ties it to a cluster of mulberry shoots.

The top line marked means:

The standstill comes to an end.

First standstill, then good fortune.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

This hexagram is the opposite of the preceding one. Heaven is above, 
drawing farther and farther away, while the earth below sinks farther into the 
depths. The creative powers are not in relation. It is a time of standstill and 
decline. This hexagram is linked with the seventh month (August-
September), when the year has passed its zenith and autumnal decay is setting 
in.

The Judgement

Heaven and earth are out of communion and all things are benumbed. What 
is above has no relation to what is below, and on earth confusion and 
disorder prevail. The dark power is within, the light power is without.
Weakness is within, harshness without. Within are the inferior, and 
without are the superior. The way of inferior people is in ascent; the way of 
superior people is one the decline. But the superior people do not allow 
themselves to be turned from their principles. If the possibility of exerting 
influence is closed to them, they nevertheless remain faithful to their 
principles and withdraw into seclusion.

The Image

When, owing to the influence of inferior men, mutual mistrust prevails in 
public life, fruitful activity is rendered impossible, because the fundaments 
are wrong. Therefore the superior man knows what he must do under such 
circumstances; he does not allow himself to be tempted by dazzling offers to 
take part in public activities. This would only expose him to danger, since he 
cannot assent to the meanness of the others. He therefore hides his worth 
and withdraws into seclusion.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

The text is almost the same as that of the first line of the preceding hexagram, 
but with a contrary meaning. In the latter a man is drawing another along 
with him on the road to an official career; here a man is drawing another 
with him into retirement form public life. This is why the text says here, 
"Perseverance brings good fortune and success," and not "Undertakings bring 
good fortune." If it becomes impossible to make our influence count, it is 
only by retirement that we spare ourselves humiliation. Success in a higher 
sense can be ours, because we know how to safeguard the value of our 
personalities.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

Inferior people are ready to flatter their superiors in a servile way. They 
would also endure the superior man if he would put an end to their 
confusion. This is fortunate for them. But the great man calmly bears the 
consequences of the standstill. He does not mingle with the crowd of the 
inferior; that is not his place. By his willingness to suffer personally he 
insures the success of his fundamental principles.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

Inferior people who have risen to power illegitimately do not feel equal to the 
responsibility they have taken upon themselves. In their hearts they begin to 
be ashamed, although at first they do not show it outwardly. This marks a 
turn for the better.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

The time of standstill is nearing the point of change into its opposite.
Whoever wishes to restore order must feel himself called to the task and 
have the necessary authority. A man who sets himself up a capable of 
creating order according to his own judgment could make mistakes and end 
in failure. But the man who is truly called to the task is favored by the 
conditions of the time, and all those of like mind will share in his blessing.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

The time undergoes a change. The right man, able to restore order, has 
arrived. Hence "good fortune." But such periods of transition are the very 
times in which we must fear and tremble. Success is assured only through 
greatest caution, which asks always, "What if it should fail?" When a 
mulberry bush is cut down, a number of unusually strong shoots sprout from 
the roots. Hence the image of tying something to a cluster of mulberry shoots 
is used to symbolize the way of making success certain. Confucius says about 
this line:

Danger arises when a man feels secure in his position. Destruction threatens 
when a man seeks to preserve his worldly estate. Confusion develops when a 
man has put everything in order. Therefore the superior man does not forget 
danger in his security, not ruin when he is well established, nor confusion 
when his affairs are in order. In this way he gains personal safety and is able 
to protect the empire.

 The top line marked

The standstill does not last forever. However, it does not cease of its own 
accord; the right man is needed to end it. This is the difference between a 
state of peace and a state of stagnation. Continuous effort is necessary to 
maintain peace: left to itself it would change into stagnation and 
disintegration. The time of disintegration, however, does not change back 
automatically to a condition of peace and prosperity; effort must be put forth 
in order to end it. This shows the creative attitude that man must take if the 
world is to be put in order.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Heaven upon Earth

Heaven covering Earth, Earth resting below Heaven — that's how it is and how it should be. The original state of things, the order that nature always returns to. When this is the situation, there is no cause for any kind of action.

 This is the obvious reason for standstill and no furthering. Why change the optimal order of the universe, why even try?

 If this hexagram appears in divination, it means that things are as they should be, so one should be very cautious about acting at all. Nothing big, nothing out of the ordinary. Things have fallen into their places, the puzzle is complete. Only the most minor of adjustments are called for.

 The Jugdement is nothing other than this: The situation makes it evident that this is how things should be. It can be compared to the basic arrangement of the cosmos into Heaven above and Earth below. The present situation should be this natural, or there is something wrong. The time is such that what takes place can be compared to the most basic and yet most magnificent of orders — that of Heaven and Earth. So, who's to object or interfere?

Yin and Yang Significances

The hexagram is also the equal blending in a sublime order of Yang (full) and Yin (broken) lines. So, it's a symbol of the Yin and Yang unity. Things are in perfect balance. Again an argument for not disturbing the situation by careless action.

