000001
I Ching Hexagram 24.
Fu / Return (The Turning Point)

Upper trigram: K'un The Receptive, Earth

Lower trigram: Chên The Arousing, Thunder

The Judgement

Return. Success.

Going out and coming in without error.

Friends come without blame.

To and Fro goes the way.

On the seventh day comes return.

It furthers one to have somewhere to go.

The Image

Thunder within the earth:

The image of The Turning Point.

Thus the kings of antiquity closed the passes

At the time of solstice.

Merchants and strangers did not go about,

And the ruler

Did not travel through the provinces.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Return from a short distance.

No need for remorse.

Great good fortune.

The 2nd line marked means:

Quiet return. Good fortune.

The 3rd line marked means:

Repeated return. Danger. No blame.

The 4th line marked means:

Walking in the midst of others,

One returns alone.

The 5th line marked means:

Noblehearted return.

No remorse.

The top line marked means:

Missing the return. Misfortune.

Misfortune from within and without.

If armies are set marching in this way,

One will in the end suffer a great defeat,

Disastrous for the ruler of the country.

For ten years

It will not be possible to attack again.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

The idea of a turning point arises from the fact that after the dark lines have 
pushed all of the light lines upward and out of the hexagram, another light 
line enters the hexagram from below. The time of darkness is past. The 
winter solstice brings the victory of light. This hexagram is linked with the 
eleventh month, the month of the solstice (December-January).

The Judgement

After a time of decay comes the turning point. The powerful light that has 
been banished returns. There is movement, but it is not brought about by 
force. The upper trigram K'un is characterized by devotion; thus the 
movement is natural, arising spontaneously. For this reason the 
transformation of the old becomes easy. The old is discarded and the new is 
introduced. Both measures accord with the time; therefore no harm results.
Societies of people sharing the same views are formed. But since these 
groups come together in full public knowledge and are in harmony with the 
time, all selfish separatist tendencies are excluded, and no mistake is made.
The idea of RETURN is based on the course of nature. The movement is 
cyclic, and the course completes itself. Therefore it is not necessary to hasten 
anything artificially. Everything comes of itself at the appointed time. This is 
the meaning of heaven and earth.

 All movements are accomplished in six stages, and the seventh brings 
return. Thus the winter solstice, with which the decline of the year begins, 
comes in the seventh month after the summer solstice; so too sunrise comes 
in the seventh double hour after sunset. Therefore seven is the number of 
the young light, and it arises when six, the number of the great darkness, is 
increased by one. In this way the state of rest gives place to movement.

The Image

The winter solstice has always been celebrated in China as the resting time of 
the year — a custom that survives in the time of rest observed at the new year.
In winter the life energy, symbolized by thunder, the Arousing, is still 
underground. Movement is just at its beginning; therefore it must be 
strengthened by rest so that it will not be dissipated by being used 
prematurely. This principle, i.e., of allowing energy that is renewing itself to 
be reinforced by rest, applies to all similar situations. The return of health 
after illness, the return of understanding after an estrangement: everything 
must be treated tenderly and with care at the beginning, so that the return 
may lead to a flowering.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

Slight digressions from the good cannot be avoided, but one must turn back 
in time, before going too far. This is especially important in the development 
of character; every faintly evil thought must be put aside immediately, before 
it goes too far and takes root in the mind. Then there is no cause for remorse, 
and all goes well.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

Return always calls for a decision and is an act of self-mastery. It is made 
easier if a man is in good company. If he can bring himself to put aside pride 
and follow the example of good men, good fortune results.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

There are people of a certain inner instability who feel a constant urge to 
reverse themselves. There is danger in continually deserting the good 
because of uncontrolled desires, then turning back to it again because of a 
better resolution. However, since this does not lead to habituation in evil, a 
general inclination to overcome the defect is not wholly excluded/

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

A man is in a society composed of inferior people, but is connected spiritually 
with a strong and good friend, and this makes him turn back alone.
Although nothing is said of reward and punishment, this return is certainly 
favorable, for such a resolve to choose the good brings its own reward. 

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

When the time for return has come, a man should not take shelter in trivial 
excuses, but should look within and examine himself. And if he has done 
something wrong he should make a noblehearted resolve to confess his fault.
No one will regret having taken this road.

 The top line marked

If a man misses the right time for return, he meets with misfortune. The 
misfortune has its inner cause in a wrong attitude toward the world. The 
misfortune coming upon him for without results from this wrong attitude.
What is pictured here is blind obstinacy and the judgment that is visited 
upon it.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Earth upon Thunder

Thunder under the surface of the earth — that's an earthquake about to happen. So, this is a hexagram of imminent fundamental and dramatic change.

 Earth weighs heavily on its chaotic interior, keeping the turmoil contained. But it can only do so up to a point. Sooner or later, the ground will shake and break. The surface will change, whatever we do in an effort to prevent it. The natural forces are not tamed.

 Any big change has a similar scenario, whether caused by nature or by man. At first, status quo seems to persist, but the rumble from below grows. Revolution may be postponed, but not cancelled. Not all changes, but some of them, are irresistible at length. As they are suppressed, they build momentum and force. At a certain point, this breaks through any resistance.

 This heaxagram speaks of such changes — at the moment before they break through. The expansive force of the thunder penetrates earth to expand across the sky, the open space that pacifies any force by accepting it instead of trying to suppress it. Things return to a state of of balance, once the forces involved are are allowed to got their way.

Yin and Yang Significances

In this hexagram, only the bottom line is Yang (full), whereas all the five lines above it are Yin (broken). Yin is the earthly, the dark, cold and moist. Yang is the heavenly, the light, dry and warm. So, the tremendous excess of Yin is resisted by just one Yang — although in the key bottom position. That gives it strain, but also potency. This line may — against all odds — transform all those above it, as it strives to rise to its natural higher position. It represents a turning point, indeed. In spite of how it looks, anything can happen.

