000011
I Ching Hexagram 19.
Lin / Approach

Upper trigram: K'un The Receptive, Earth

Lower trigram: Tui The Joyous, Lake

The Judgement

Approach has supreme success.

Perseverance furthers.

When the eight month comes,

There will be misfortune.

The Image

The earth above the lake:

The image of Approach.

Thus the superior man is inexhaustible

In his will to teach,

And without limits

In his tolerance and protection of the people.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Joint approach.

Perseverance brings good fortune.

The 2nd line marked means:

Joint approach.

Good fortune.

Everything furthers.

The 3rd line marked means:

Comfortable approach.

Nothing that would not further.

If one is induced to grieve over it,

One becomes free of blame.

The 4th line marked means:

Complete approach.

No blame.

The 5th line marked means:

Wise approach.

This is right for a great prince.

Good fortune.

The top line marked means:

Greathearted approach.

Good fortune. No blame.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

The Chinese word lin has a range of meanings that is not exhausted by any 
single word of another language. The ancient explanations in the Book of 
Changes give as its first meaning, "becoming great." What becomes great are 
the two strong lines growing into the hexagram from below; the light-giving 
power expands with them. The meaning is then further extended to include 
the concept of approach, especially the approach of what is lower. Finally the 
meaning includes the attitude of condescension of a man in high position 
toward the people, and in general the setting to work on affairs. This 
hexagram is linked with the twelfth month (January-February), when after 
the winter solstice, the light power begins to ascend again.

The Judgement

The hexagram as a whole points to a time of joyous, hopeful progress. Spring 
is approaching. Joy and forbearance bring high and low nearer together.
Success is certain. But we must work with determination and perseverance 
to make full use of the propitiousness of the time. And on thing more: 
spring does not last forever. In the eighth month the aspects are reversed.
Then only two strong, light lines are left; these do not advance but are in 
retreat (see next hexagram). We must take heed of this change in good time.
If we meet evil before it becomes reality-before it has even begun to stir-we 
can master it.

The Image

The earth borders upon the lake from above. This symbolizes the approach 
and condescension of the man of higher position to those beneath him. The 
two parts of the image indicate what his attitude toward these people will be.
Just as the lake is inexhaustible in depth, so the sage is inexhaustible in his 
readiness to teach mankind, and just as the earth is boundlessly wide, 
sustaining and caring for all creatures on it, so the sage sustains and cares for 
all people and excludes no part of humanity.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

The good begins to prevail and to find response in influential circles. This in 
turn is an incentive to men of ability. IT is well to join this upward trend, but 
we must not let ourselves be carried away by the current of the time; we must 
adhere perseveringly to what is right. This brings good fortune.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

When the stimulus to approach comes from a high place, and when a man 
has the inner strength and consistency that need no admonition, good 
fortune will ensue. Nor need the future cause any concern. He is well aware 
that everything earthly is transitory, and that a descent follows upon every 
rise, but need not be confused by this universal law of fate. Everything serves 
to further. Therefore he will travel the paths of life swiftly, honestly, and 
valiantly.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

Things are going well for a man: he achieves power and influence. But in 
this lies the danger that he may relax, and confident of his position, allow the 
easygoing, careless mood to show itself in his dealings with other people.
This would inevitably be harmful. But there is possibility of a change of 
mood. If he regrets his mistaken attitude and feels the responsibility of an 
influential position, he frees himself of faults.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

While the three lower lines indicate rise to power and influence, the three 
upper lines show the attitude of persons in higher position toward those of 
lower rank for whom they procure influence. Here is shown the open-
minded approach of a person of high rank to a man of ability whom he draws 
in to his own circle, regardless of class prejudice. This is very favorable. 

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

A prince, or anyone in a leading position, must have the wisdom to attract to 
himself people of ability who are expert in directing affairs. His wisdom 
consists both in selecting the right people and in allowing those chosen to 
have a free hand without interference from him. For only through such self-
restraint will he find the experts needed to satisfy all of his requirements.

 The top line marked

A sage who has put the world behind him and who in spirit has already 
withdrawn from life may, under certain circumstances, decide to return once 
more to the here and now and to approach other men. This means great 
good fortune for the men whom he teaches and helps. And for him this great 
hearted humbling of himself is blameless.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Earth upon Lake

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

