000100
I Ching Hexagram 15.
Ch'ien / Modesty

Upper trigram: K'un The Receptive, Earth

Lower trigram: Kên Keeping Still, Mountain

The Judgement

Modesty creates success.

The superior man carries things through.

The Image

Within the earth, a mountain:

The image of Modesty.

Thus the superior man reduces that which is too much,

And augments that which is too little.

He weighs things and makes them equal.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

A superior man modest about his modesty

May cross the great water.

Good fortune.

The 2nd line marked means:

Modesty that comes to expression.

Perseverance brings good fortune.

The 3rd line marked means:

A superior man of modesty and merit

Carries things to conclusion.

Good fortune.

The 4th line marked means:

Nothing that would not further modesty

In movement.

The 5th line marked means:

No boasting of wealth before one's neighbor.

It is favorable to attack with force.

Nothing that would not further.

The top line marked means:

Modesty that comes to expression.

It is favorable to set armies marching

To chastise one's own city and one's country.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

This hexagram is made up of the trigrams Kên, Keeping Still, mountain, and 
K'un. The mountain is the youngest son of the Creative, the representative 
of heaven and earth. It dispenses the blessings of heaven, the clouds and rain 
that gather round its summit, and thereafter shines forth radiant with 
heavenly light. This shows what modesty is and how it functions in great 
and strong men. K'un, the earth, stands above. Lowliness is a quality of the 
earth: this is the very reason why it appears in this hexagram as exalted, by 
being placed above the mountain. This shows how modesty functions in 
lowly, simple people: they are lifted up by it.

The Judgement

It is the law of heaven to make fullness empty and to make full what is 
modest; when the sun is at its zenith, it must, according to the law of heaven, 
turn toward its setting, and at its nadir it rises toward a new dawn. In 
obedience to the same law, the moon when it is full begins to wane, and 
when empty of light it waxes again. This heavenly law works itself out in the 
fates of men also. It is the law of earth to alter the full and to contribute to the 
modest. High mountains are worn down by the waters, and the valleys are 
filled up. It is the law of fate to undermine what is full and to prosper the 
modest. And men also hate fullness and love the modest.

 The destinies of men are subject to immutable laws that must fulfill 
themselves. But man has it in his power to shape his fate, according as his 
behavior exposes him to the influence of benevolent or of destructive forces.
When a man holds a high position and is nevertheless modest, he shines 
with the light of wisdom; if he is in a lowly position and is modest, he cannot 
be passed by. Thus the superior man can carry out his work to the end 
without boasting of what he has achieved.

The Image

The wealth of the earth in which a mountain is hidden is not visible to the 
eye, because the depths are offset by the height of the mountain. Thus high 
and low competent each other and the result is the plain. Here an effect that 
it took a long time to achieve, but that in the end seems easy of 
accomplishment and self-evident, is used as the image of modesty. The 
superior man does the same thing when he establishes order in the world; he 
equalizes the extremes that are the source of social discontent and thereby 
creates just and equable conditions.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

A dangerous enterprise, such as the crossing of a great stream, is made much 
more difficult if many claims and considerations have to be taken into 
account. On the other hand, the task is easy if it is attended to quickly and 
simply. Therefore the unassuming attitude of mind that goes with modesty 
fits a man to accomplish even difficult undertakings: he imposes no 
demands or stipulations but settles matters easily and quickly. Where no 
claims are put forward, no resistances arise.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

"Out of the fullness of the heart the mouth speaketh." When a man's 
attitude of mind is so modest that this expresses itself in his outward 
behavior, it is a source of good fortune to him. For the possibility of exerting 
a lasting influence arises of itself and no one can interfere.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

This is the center of the hexagram, where its secret is disclosed. A 
distinguished name is readily earned by great achievements. If a man allows 
himself to be dazzled by fame, he will soon be criticized, and difficulties will 
arise. If, on the contrary, he remains modest despite his merit, he makes 
himself beloved and wins the support necessary for carrying his work 
through to the end.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

Everything has its proper measure. Even modesty in behavior can be carried 
too far. Here, however, it is appropriate, because the place between a worthy 
helper below and a kindly ruler above carries great responsibility. The 
confidence of the man in superior place must not be abused nor the merits of 
the man in inferior placed concealed. There are officials who indeed do not 
strive for prominence; they hide behind the letter of ordinances, decline all 
responsibility, accept pay without giving its equivalent in work, and bear 
empty titles. This is the opposite of what is meant here by modesty. In such a 
position, modesty is shown by interest in one's work.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

Modesty is not to be confused with weak good nature that lets things take 
their own course. When a man holds a responsible position, he must at times 
resort to energetic measures. In doing so he must not try to make an 
impression by boasting of his superiority but must make certain of the people 
around him. The measures taken should be purely objective and in no way 
personally offensive. Thus modesty manifests itself even in severity.

 The top line marked

A person who is really sincere in his modesty must make it show in reality.
He must proceed with great energy in this. When enmity arises nothing is 
easier than to lay the blame on another. A weak man takes offense perhaps, 
and draws back, feeling self-pity; he thinks that it is modesty that keeps him 
from defending himself. Genuine modesty sets one to creating order and 
inspires one to begin by disciplining one's own ego and one's immediate 
circle. Only through having the courage to marshal one's armies against 
oneself, will something forceful really be achieved.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Earth upon Mountain

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

