001111
I Ching Hexagram 34.
Ta Chuang / The Power of the Great

Upper trigram: Chên The Arousing, Thunder

Lower trigram: Ch'ien The Creative, Heaven

The Judgement

The Power of the Great. Perseverance furthers.

The Image

Thunder in heaven above:

The image of The Power of the Great.

Thus the superior man does not tread upon paths

That do not accord with established order.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Power in the toes.

Continuing brings misfortune.

This is certainly true.

The 2nd line marked means:

Perseverance brings good fortune.

The 3rd line marked means:

The inferior man works through power.

The superior man does not act thus.

To continue is dangerous.

A goat butts against a hedge

And gets its horns entangled.

The 4th line marked means:

Perseverance brings good fortune.

Remorse disappears.

The hedge opens; there is no entanglement.

Power depends upon the axle of a big cart.

The 5th line marked means:

Loses the goat with ease.

No remorse.

The top line marked means:

A goat butts against a hedge.

It cannot go backward, it cannot go forward.

Nothing serves to further.

If one notes the difficulty, this brings good fortune.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

The great lines, that is, the light, strong lines, are powerful. Four light lines 
have entered the hexagram from below and are about to ascend higher. The 
upper trigram is Chên, the Arousing; the lower is ch'ien, the Creative.
Ch'ien is strong, Chên produces movement. The union of movement and 
strength gives the meaning of THE POWER OF THE GREAT. The hexagram 
is linked with the second month (March-April).

The Judgement

The hexagram points to a time when inner worth mounts with great force 
and comes to power. But its strength has already passed beyond the median 
line, hence there is danger that one may rely entirely on one's own power 
and forget to ask what is right. There is danger too that, being intent on 
movement, we may not wait for the right time. Therefore the added 
statement that perseverance furthers. For that is truly great power which does 
not degenerate into mere force but remains inwardly united with the 
fundamental principles of right and of justice. When we understand this 
point — namely, that greatness and justice must be indissolubly united — we 
understand the true meaning of all that happens in heaven and on earth.

The Image

Thunder — electrical energy — mounts upward in the spring. The direction of 
this movement is in harmony with that of the movement of heaven. It is 
therefore a movement in accord with heaven, producing great power.
However, true greatness depends on being in harmony with what is right.
Therefore in times of great power the superior man avoids doing anything 
that is not in harmony with the established order.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

The toes are in the lowest place and are ready to advance. So likewise great 
power in lowly station is inclined to effect advance by force. This, if carried 
further, would certainly lead to misfortune, and therefore by way of advice a 
warning is added.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

The premise here is that the gates to success are beginning to open.
Resistance gives way and we forge ahead. This is the point at which, only too 
easily, we become the prey of exuberant self-confidence. This is why the 
oracle says that perseverance (i.e., perseverance in inner equilibrium, without 
excessive use of power) brings good fortune.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

Making a boast of power leads to entanglements, just as a goat entangles its 
horns when it butts against a hedge. Whereas an inferior man revels in 
power when he comes into possession of it, the superior man never makes 
this mistake. He is conscious at all times of the danger of pushing ahead 
regardless of circumstances, and therefore renounces in good time the empty 
display of force.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

If a man goes on quietly and perseveringly working at the removal of 
resistances, success comes in the end. The obstructions give way and all 
occasion for remorse arising from excessive use of power disappears.

Such a man's power does not show externally, yet it can move heavy loads, 
like a big cart whose real strength lies in its axle. The less that power is 
applied outwardly, the greater its effect.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

The goat is noted for hardness outwardly and weakness within. Now the 
situation is such that everything is easy; there is no more resistance. One can 
give up a belligerent, stubborn way of acting and will not have to regret it.

 The top line marked

If we venture too far we come to a deadlock, unable either to advance or to 
retreat and whatever we do merely serves to complicate thing further. Such 
obstinacy leads to insuperable difficulties. But if, realizing the situation, we 
compose ourselves and decide not to continue, everything will right itself in 
time.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Thunder upon Heaven

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

