001110
I Ching Hexagram 32.
Hêng / Duration

Upper trigram: Chên The Arousing, Thunder

Lower trigram: Sun The Gentle, Wind, Wood

The Judgement

Duration. Success. No blame.

Perseverance furthers.

It furthers one to have somewhere to go.

The Image

Thunder and wind: the image of Duration.

Thus the superior man stands firm

And does not change his direction.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Seeking duration too hastily brings misfortune persistently.

Nothing that would further.

The 2nd line marked means:

Remorse disappears.

The 3rd line marked means:

He who does not give duration to his character

Meets with disgrace.

Persistent humiliation.

The 4th line marked means:

No game in the field.

The 5th line marked means:

Giving duration to one's character through perseverance.

This is good fortune for a woman, misfortune for a man.

The top line marked means:

Restlessness as an enduring condition brings misfortune.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

The strong trigram Chên is above, the weak trigram Sun below. This 
hexagram is the inverse of the preceding one. In the latter we have influence, 
here we have union as an enduring condition. The two images are thunder 
and wind, which are likewise constantly paired phenomena. The lower 
trigram indicates gentleness within; the upper, movement without.

 In the sphere of social relationships, the hexagram represents the institution 
of marriage as the enduring union of the sexes. During courtship the young 
man subordinates himself to the girl, but in marriage, which is represented by 
the coming together of the eldest son and the eldest daughter, the husband is 
the directing and moving force outside, while the wife, inside, is gentle and 
submissive.

The Judgement

Duration is a state whose movement is not worn down by hindrances. It is 
not a state of rest, for mere standstill is regression. Duration is rather the self-
contained and therefore self-renewing movement of an organized, firmly 
integrated whole, taking place in accordance with immutable laws and 
beginning anew at every ending. The end is reached by an inward 
movement, by inhalation, systole, contraction, and this movement turns into 
a new beginning, in which the movement is directed outward, in exhalation, 
diastole, expansion.

 Heavenly bodies exemplify duration. They move in their fixed orbits, and 
because of this their light-giving power endures. The seasons of the year 
follow a fixed law of change and transformation, hence can produce effects 
that endure.

 So likewise the dedicated man embodies an enduring meaning in his way 
of life, and thereby the world is formed. In that which gives things their 
duration, we can come to understand the nature of all beings in heaven and 
on earth.

The Image

Thunder rolls, and the wind blows; both are examples of extreme mobility 
and so are seemingly the very opposite of duration, but the laws governing 
their appearance and subsidence, their coming and going, endure. In the same 
way the independence of the superior man is not based on rigidity and 
immobility of character. He always keeps abreast of the time and changes 
with it. What endures is the unswerving directive, the inner law of his 
being, which determines all his actions.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

Whatever endures can be created only gradually by long-continued work and 
careful reflection. In the same sense Lao-tse says: "If we wish to compress 
something, we must first let it fully expand." He who demands too much at 
once is acting precipitately, and because he attempts too much, he ends by 
succeeding in nothing.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

The situation is abnormal. A man's force of character is greater than the 
available material power. Thus he might be afraid of allowing himself to 
attempt something beyond his strength. However, since it is the time of 
DURATION, it is possible for him to control his inner strength and so to 
avoid excess. Cause for remorse then disappears.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

If a man remains at the mercy of moods of hope or fear aroused by the outer 
world, he loses his inner consistency of character. Such inconsistency 
invariably leads to distressing experiences. These humiliations often come 
from an unforeseen quarter. Such experiences are not merely effects 
produced by the external world, but logical consequences evoked by his own 
nature.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

If we are in pursuit of game and want to get a shot at a quarry, we must set 
about it in the right way. A man who persists in stalking game in a place 
where there is none may wait forever without finding any. Persistence in 
search is not enough. What is not sought in the right way is not found.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

A woman should follow a man her whole life long, but a man should at all 
times hold to what is his duty at the given moment. Should he persistently 
seek to conform to the woman, it would be a mistake for him. Accordingly it 
is altogether right for a woman to hold conservatively to tradition, but a man 
must always be flexible and adaptable and allow himself to be guided solely by 
what his duty requires of him at the moment.

 The top line marked

There are people who live in a state of perpetual hurry without ever attaining
inner composure. Restlessness not only prevents all thoroughness but actually
becomes a danger if it is dominant in places of authority.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Thunder upon Wind

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

