010000
I Ching Hexagram 8.
Pi / Holding Together (Union)

Upper trigram: K'an The Abysmal, Water

Lower trigram: K'un The Receptive, Earth

The Judgement

Holding Together brings good fortune.

Inquire of the oracle once again

Whether you possess sublimity, constancy, and perseverance;

Then there is no blame.

Those who are uncertain gradually join.

Whoever comes too late

Meets with misfortune.

The Image

On the earth is water:

The image of Holding Together.

Thus the kings of antiquity

Bestowed the different states as fiefs

And cultivated friendly relations

With the feudal lords.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Hold to him in truth and loyalty;

This is without blame.

Truth, like a full earthen bowl:

Thus in the end

Good fortune comes from without.

The 2nd line marked means:

Hold to him inwardly.

Perseverance brings good fortune.

The 3rd line marked means:

You hold together with the wrong people.

The 4th line marked means:

Hold to him outwardly also.

Perseverance brings good fortune.

The 5th line marked means:

Manifestation of holding together.

In the hunt the king uses beaters on three sides only

And foregoes game that runs off in front.

The citizens need no warning.

Good fortune.

The top line marked means:

He finds no head for holding together.

Misfortune.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

The waters on the surface of the earth flow together wherever they can, as for 
example in the ocean, where all the rivers come together. Symbolically this 
connotes holding together and the laws that regulate it. The same idea is 
suggested by the fact that all the lines of the hexagram except the fifth, the 
place of the ruler, are yielding. The yielding lines hold together because they 
are influenced by a man of strong will in the leading position, a man who is 
their center of union. Moreover, this strong and guiding personality in turn 
holds together with the others, finding in them the complement of his own 
nature.

The Judgement

What is required is that we unite with others, in order that all may 
complement and aid one another through holding together. But such 
holding together calls for a central figure around whom other persons may 
unite. To become a center of influence holding people together is a grave 
matter and fraught with great responsibility. It requires greatness of spirit, 
consistency, and strength. Therefore let him who wishes to gather others 
about him ask himself whether he is equal to the undertaking, for anyone 
attempting the task without a real calling for it only makes confusion worse 
than if no union at all had taken place.

 But when there is a real rallying point, those who at first are hesitant or 
uncertain gradually come in of their own accord. Late-comers must suffer the 
consequences, for in holding together the question of the right time is also 
important. Relationships are formed and firmly established according to 
definite inner laws. Common experiences strengthen these ties, and he who 
comes too late to share in these basic experiences must suffer for it if, as a 
straggler, he finds the door locked.

 If a man has recognized the necessity for union and does not feel strong 
enough to function as the center, it is his duty to become a member of some 
other organic fellowship.

The Image

Water fills up all the empty places on the earth and clings fast to it. The social 
organization of ancient China was based on this principle of the holding 
together of dependents and rulers. Water flows to unite with water, because 
all parts of it are subject to the same laws. So too should human society hold 
together through a community of interests that allows each individual to feel 
himself a member of a whole. The central power of a social organization 
must see to it that every member finds that his true interest lies in holding 
together with it, as was the case in the paternal relationship between king and 
vassals in ancient China.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

Fundamental sincerity is the only proper basis for forming relationships.
This attitude, symbolized by a full earthen bowl, in which the content is 
everything and the empty form nothing, shows itself not in clever words but 
through the strength of what lies within the speaker. This strength is so great 
that it has power to attract good fortune to itself from without.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

If a person responds perseveringly and in the right way to the behests from 
above that summon him to action, his relations with others are intrinsic and 
he does not lose himself. But if a man seeks association with others as if he 
were an obsequious office hunter, he throws himself away. He does not 
follow the path of the superior man, who never loses his dignity.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

We are often among people who do not belong to our own sphere. In that 
case we must beware of being drawn into false intimacy through force of 
habit. Needless to say, this would have evil consequences. Maintaining 
sociability without intimacy is the only right attitude toward people, because 
otherwise we should not be free to enter into relationship with people of our 
own kind later on.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

Here the relations with a man who is the center of union are well established.
Then we may, and indeed we should, show our attachment openly. But we 
must remain constant and not allow ourselves to be led astray.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

In the royal hunts of ancient China it was customary to drive up the game 
from three sides, but on the fourth the animals had a chance to run off. If 
they failed to do this they had to pass through a gate behind which the king 
stood ready to shoot. Only animals that entered here were shot; those that 
ran off in front were permitted to escape. This custom accorded with a kingly 
attitude; the royal hunter did not wish to turn the chase into a slaughter, but 
held that the kill should consist only of those animals which had so to speak 
voluntarily exposed themselves.

 There is depicted here a ruler, or influential man, to whom people are 
attracted. Those who come to him he accepts, those who do not come are 
allowed to go their own way. He invited none, flatters none — all come of 
their own free will. In this way there develops a voluntary dependence 
among those who hold him. They do not have to be constantly on their 
guard but may express their opinions openly. Police measures are not 
necessary, and they cleave to their ruler of their own volition. The same 
principle of freedom is valid for life in general. We should not woo favor 
from people. If a man cultivates within himself the purity and the strength 
that are necessary for one who is the center of a fellowship, those who are 
meant for him come of their own accord.

 The top line marked

The head is the beginning. If the beginning is not right, there is no hope of a 
right ending. If we have missed the right moment for union and go on 
hesitating to give complete and full devotion, we shall regret the error when 
it is too late.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Water upon Earth

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

