011001
I Ching Hexagram 17.
Sui / Following

Upper trigram: Tui The Joyous, Lake

Lower trigram: Chên The Arousing, Thunder

The Judgement

Following has supreme success.

Perseverance furthers. No blame.

The Image

Thunder in the middle of the lake:

The image of Following.

Thus the superior man at nightfall

Goes indoors for rest and recuperation.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

The standard is changing.

Perseverance brings good fortune.

To go out of the door in company

Produces deeds.

The 2nd line marked means:

If one clings to the little boy,

One loses the strong man.

The 3rd line marked means:

If one clings to the strong man,

One loses the little boy.

Through following one finds what one seeks.

It furthers one to remain persevering.

The 4th line marked means:

Following creates success.

Perseverance brings misfortune.

To go one's own way with sincerity brings clarity.

How could there be blame in this?

The 5th line marked means:

Sincere in the good. Good fortune.

The top line marked means:

He meets with firm allegiance

And is still further bound.

The king introduces him

To the Western Mountain.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

The trigram Tui, the Joyous, whose attribute is gladness, is above; Chên, the 
Arousing, which has the attribute of movement, is below. Joy in movement 
induces following. The Joyous is the youngest daughter, while the Arousing 
is the eldest son. An older man defers to a young girl and shows her 
consideration. By this he moves her to follow him.

The Judgement

In order to obtain a following one must first know how to adapt oneself. If a 
man would rule he must first learn to serve, for only in this way does he 
secure from those below him the joyous assent that is necessary if they are to 
follow him. If he has to obtain a following by force or cunning, by conspiracy 
or by creating faction, he invariably arouses resistance, which obstructs 
willing adherence. But even joyous movement can lead to evil 
consequences, hence the added stipulation, "Perseverance furthers" — that is, 
consistency in doing right — together with "No blame." Just as we should not 
ask others to follow us unless this condition is fulfilled, so it is only under 
this condition that we can in turn follow others without coming to harm.

 The thought of obtaining a following through adaptation to the demands of 
the time is a great and significant idea; this is why the appended judgment is 
so favorable.

The Image

In the autumn electricity withdraws into the earth again and rests. Here it is 
the thunder in the middle of the lake that serves as the image — thunder in its 
winter rest, not thunder in motion. The idea of following in the sense of 
adaptation to the demands of the time grows out of this image. Thunder in 
the middle of the lake indicates times of darkness and rest. Similarly, a 
superior man, after being tirelessly active all day, allows himself rest and 
recuperation at night. No situation can become favorable until one is able to 
adapt to it and does not wear himself out with mistaken resistance.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

There are exceptional conditions in which the relation between leader and 
followers changes. It is implicit in the idea of following and adaptation that if 
one wants to lead others, one must remain accessible and responsive to the 
views of those under him. At the same time, however, he must have firm 
principles, so that he does not vacillate where there is only a question of 
current opinion. Once we are ready to listen to the opinions of others, we 
must not associate exclusively with people who share our views or with 
members of our own party; instead, we must go out and mingle freely with 
all sorts of people, friends or foes. That is the only way to achieve something.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

In friendships and close relationships an individual must make a careful 
choice. He surrounds himself either with good or with bad company; he 
cannot have both at once. If he throws himself away on unworthy friends he 
loses connection with people of intellectual power who could further him in 
the good.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

When the right connection with distinguished people has been found, a 
certain loss naturally ensues. A man must part company with the inferior 
and superficial. But in his heart he will feel satisfied, because he seeks and 
needs for the development of his personality. The important thing is to 
remain firm. He must know what he wants and not be led astray by 
momentary inclinations.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

It often happens, when a man exerts a certain amount of influence, that he 
obtains a following by condescension toward inferiors. But the people who 
attach themselves to him are not honest in their intentions. They seek 
personal advantage and try to make themselves indispensable through 
flattery and subservience. If one becomes accustomed to such satellites and 
cannot do without them, it brings misfortune. Only when a man is 
completely free from his ego, and intent, by conviction, upon what is right 
and essential, does he acquire the clarity that enables him to see through such 
people, and become free of blame.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

Every man must have something he follows — something that serves him as a 
lodestar. He who follows with conviction the beautiful and the good may feel 
himself strengthened by this saying.

 The top line marked

This refers to a man, an exalted sage, who has already put the turmoil of the 
world behind him. But a follower appears who understands him and is not 
to be put off. So the sage comes back into the world and aids the other in his 
work. Thus there develops an eternal tie between the two.

 The allegory is chosen from the annals of the Chou dynasty. The rulers of 
this dynasty honored men who had served them well by awarding them a 
place in the royal family's temple of ancestors on the Western Mountain. In 
this way they were regarded as sharing in the destiny of the ruling family.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Lake upon Thunder

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

