011110
I Ching Hexagram 28.
Ta Kuo / Preponderance of the Great

Upper trigram: Tui The Joyous, Lake

Lower trigram: Sun The Gentle, Wind, Wood

The Judgement

Preponderance of the Great.

The ridgepole sags to the breaking point.

It furthers one to have somewhere to go.

Success.

The Image

The lake rises above the trees:

The image of Preponderance of the Great.

Thus the superior man, when he stands alone,

Is unconcerned,

And if he has to renounce the world,

He is undaunted.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

To spread white rushes underneath.

No blame.

The 2nd line marked means:

A dry poplar sprouts at the root.

An older man takes a young wife.

Everything furthers.

The 3rd line marked means:

The ridgepole sags to the breaking point.

Misfortune.

The 4th line marked means:

The ridgepole is braced. Good fortune.

If there are ulterior motives, it is humiliating.

The 5th line marked means:

A withered poplar puts forth flowers.

An older woman takes a husband.

No blame. No praise.

The top line marked means:

One must go through the water.

It goes over one's head.

Misfortune. No blame.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

This hexagram consists of four strong lines inside and two weak lines outside.
When the strong are outside and the weak inside, all is well and there is 
nothing out of balance, nothing extraordinary in the situation. Here, 
however, the opposite is the case. The hexagram represents a beam that is 
thick and heavy in the middle but too weak at the ends. This is a condition 
that cannot last; it must be changed, must pass, or misfortune will result.

The Judgement

The weight of the great is excessive. The load is too heavy for the strength of 
the supports. The ridgepole on which the whole roof rests, sags to the 
breaking point, because its supporting ends are too weak for the load they 
bear. It is an exceptional time and situation; therefore extraordinary measures 
are demanded. It is necessary to find a way of transition as quickly as possible, 
and to take action. This promises success. For although the strong element is 
in excess, it is in the middle, that is, at the center of gravity, so that a 
revolution is not to be feared. Nothing is to be achieved by forcible measures.
The problem must be solved by gently penetration to the meaning of the 
situation (as is suggested by the attribute of the inner trigram, Sun); then the 
change-over to other conditions will be successful. It demands real 
superiority; therefore the time when the great preponderates is a momentous 
time.

The Image

Extraordinary times when the great preponderates are like flood times when 
the lake rises over the treetops. But such conditions are temporary. The two 
trigrams indicate the attitude proper to such exceptional times: the symbol of 
the trigram Sun is the tree, which stands firm even though it stands alone, 
and the attribute of Tui is joyousness, which remains undaunted even if it 
must renounce the world.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

When a man wishes to undertake an enterprise in extraordinary times, he 
must be extraordinarily cautious, just as when setting a heavy thing down on 
the floor, one takes care to put rushes under it, so that nothing will break.
This caution, though it may seem exaggerated, is not a mistake. Exceptional 
enterprises cannot succeed unless utmost caution is observed in their 
beginnings and in the laying of their foundations.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

Wood is near water; hence the image of an old poplar sprouting at the root.
This means an extraordinary situation arises when an older man marries a 
young girl who suits him. Despite the unusualness of the situation, all goes 
well.

 From the point of view of politics, the meaning is that in exceptional times 
one does well to join with the lowly, for this affords a possibility of renewal.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

This indicates a type of man who in times of preponderance of the great 
insists on pushing ahead. He accepts no advice from others, and therefore 
they in turn are not willing to lend him support. Because of this the burden 
grows, until the structure of things bends or breaks. Plunging willfully ahead 
in times of danger only hastens the catastrophe.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

Through friendly relations with people of lower rank, a responsible man 
succeeds in becoming master of the situation. But if, instead of working for 
the rescue of the whole, he were to misuse his connections to obtain personal 
power and success, it would lead to humiliation.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

A withered poplar that flowers exhausts its energies thereby and only hastens 
its end. An older woman may marry once more, but no renewal takes place.
Everything remains barren. Thus, though all the amenities are observed, the 
net result is only the anomaly of the situation.

 Applied to politics, the metaphor means that if in times of insecurity we 
give up alliance with those below us and keep up only the relationships we 
have with people of higher rank, an unstable situation is created.

 The top line marked

Here is a situation in which the unusual has reached a climax. One is 
courageous and wishes to accomplish one's task, no matter what happens.
This leads into danger. The water rises over one's head. This is the 
misfortune. But one incurs no blame in giving up one's life that the good 
and the right may prevail. There are things that are more important than 
life.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Lake upon Wind

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

