110000
I Ching Hexagram 20.
Kuan / Contemplation (View)

Upper trigram: Sun The Gentle, Wind, Wood

Lower trigram: K'un The Receptive, Earth

The Judgement

Contemplation. The ablution has been made,

But not yet the offering.

Full of trust they look up to him.

The Image

The wind blows over the earth:

The image of Contemplation.

Thus the kings of old visited the regions of the world,

Contemplated the people,

And gave them instruction.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Boylike contemplation.

For an inferior man, no blame.

For a superior man, humiliation.

The 2nd line marked means:

Contemplation through the crack of the door.

Furthering for the perseverance of a woman.

The 3rd line marked means:

Contemplation of my life

Decides the choice

Between advance and retreat.

The 4th line marked means:

Contemplation of the light of the kingdom.

It furthers one to exert influence as the guest of a king.

The 5th line marked means:

Contemplation of my life.

The superior man is without blame.

The top line marked means:

Contemplation of his life.

The superior man is without blame.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

A slight variation of tonal stress gives the Chinese name for this hexagram a 
double meaning. It means both contemplating and being seen, in the sense 
of being an example. These ideas are suggested by the fact that the hexagram 
can be understood as picturing a type of tower characteristic of ancient China.

 A tower of this kind commanded a wide view of the country; at the same 
time, when situated on a mountain, it became a landmark that could be seen 
for miles around. Thus the hexagram shows a ruler who contemplates the 
law of heaven above him and the ways of the people below, and who, by 
means of good government, sets a lofty example to the masses.

 This hexagram is linked with the eight month (September-October). The 
light-giving power retreats and the dark power is again on the increase.
However, this aspect is not material in the interpretation of the hexagram as a 
whole.

The Judgement

The sacrificial ritual in China began with an ablution and a libation by which 
the Deity was invoked, after which the sacrifice was offered. The moment of 
time between these two ceremonies is the most sacred of all, the moment of 
deepest inner concentration. If piety is sincere and expressive of real faith, the 
contemplation of it has a transforming awe-spiring effect on those who 
witness it.

 Thus also in nature a holy seriousness is to be seen in the fact that natural 
occurrences are uniformly subject to law. Contemplation of the divine 
meaning underlying the workings of the universe gives to the man who is 
called upon to influence others the means of producing like effects. This 
requires that power of inner concentration which religious contemplation 
develops in great men strong in faith. It enables them to apprehend the 
mysterious and divine laws of life, and by means of profoundest inner 
concentration they give expression to these laws in their own persons. Thus 
a hidden spiritual power emanates from them, influencing and dominating 
others without their being aware of how it happens.

The Image

When the wind blows over the earth it goes far and wide, and the grass must 
bend to its power. These two occurrences find confirmation in the hexagram.
The two images are used to symbolize a practice of the kings of old; in making 
regular journeys the ruler could, in the first place, survey his realm and make 
certain that none of the existing usages of the people escaped notice; in the 
second, he could exert influence through which such customs as were 
unsuitable could be changed.

 All of this points to the power possessed by a superior personality. On the 
one hand, such a man will have a view of the real sentiments of the great 
mass of humanity and therefore cannot be deceived; on the other, he will 
impress the people so profoundly, by his mere existence and by the impact of 
his personality, that they will be swayed by him as the grass by the wind.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

This means contemplation from a distance, without comprehension. A man 
of influence is at hand, abut his influence is not understood by the common 
people. This matters little in the case of the masses, for they benefit by the 
actions of the ruling sage whether they understand them or not. But for a 
superior man it is a disgrace. He must not content himself with a shallow, 
thoughtless view of prevailing forces; he must contemplate them as a 
connected whole and try to understand them.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

Through the crack of the door one has a limited outlook; one looks outward 
from within. Contemplation is subjectively limited. One tends to relate 
everything to oneself and cannot put oneself in another's place and 
understand his motives. This is appropriate for a good housewife. It is not 
necessary for her to be conversant with the affairs of the world. But for a man 
who must take active part in public life, such a narrow, egotistic way of 
contemplating things is of course harmful.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

This is the place of transition. We no longer look outward to receive pictures 
that are more or less limited and confused, but direct out contemplation upon 
ourselves in order to find a guideline for our decisions. This self-
contemplation means the overcoming of naive egotism in the person who 
sees everything solely form his own standpoint. He begins to reflect and in 
this way acquires objectivity. However, self-knowledge does not mean 
preoccupation with one's own thoughts; rather, it means concern about the 
effects one creates. It is only the effects our lives produce that give us the 
right to judge whether what we have done means progress or regression.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

This describes a man who understands the secrets by which a kingdom can be 
made to flourish. Such a man must be given an authoritative position, in 
which he can exert influence. He should be, so to speak, a guest-that is, he 
should be honored and act independently, and should not be used as a tool.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

A man in an authoritative position to whom others look up must always be
ready for self-examination. The right sort of self-examination, however,
consists not in idle brooding over oneself but in examining the effects one
produces. Only when these effects are good, and when one's influence on
others is good, will the contemplation of one's own life bring the
satisfaction of knowing oneself to be free of mistakes.

 The top line marked

While the preceding line represents a man who contemplates himself, here 
in the highest place everything that is personal, related to the ego, is excluded.
The picture is that of a sage who stands outside the affairs of the world.
Liberated from his ego, he contemplates the laws of life and so realizes that 
knowing how to become free of blame is the highest good.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Wind upon Earth

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

