110001
I Ching Hexagram 42.
I / Increase

Upper trigram: Sun The Gentle, Wind, Wood

Lower trigram: Chên The Arousing, Thunder

The Judgement

Increase. It furthers one

To undertake something.

It furthers one to cross the great water.

The Image

Wind and thunder: the image of Increase.

Thus the superior man:

If he sees good, he imitates it;

If he has faults, he rids himself of them.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

It furthers one to accomplish great deeds.

Supreme good fortune. No blame.

The 2nd line marked means:

Someone does indeed increase him;

Ten pairs of tortoises cannot oppose it.

Constant perseverance brings good fortune.

The king presents him before God.

Good fortune.

The 3rd line marked means:

One is enriched through unfortunate events.

No blame, if you are sincere

And walk in the middle,

And report with a seal to the prince.

The 4th line marked means:

If you walk in the middle

And report to the prince,

He will follow.

It furthers one to be used

In the removal of the capital.

The 5th line marked means:

If in truth you have a kind heart, ask not.

Supreme good fortune.

Truly, kindness will be recognized as your virtue.

The top line marked means:

He brings increase to no one.

Indeed, someone even strikes him.

He does not keep his heart constantly steady.

Misfortune.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

The idea of increase is expressed in the fact that the strong lowest line of the 
upper trigram has sunk down and taken its place under the lower trigram.
This conception also expresses the fundamental idea on which the Book of 
Changes is based. To rule truly is to serve.

 A sacrifice of the higher element that produces an increase of the lower is 
called an out-and-out increase: it indicates the spirit that alone has power to 
help the world.

The Judgement

Sacrifice on the part of those above for the increase of those below fills the 
people with a sense of joy and gratitude that is extremely valuable for the 
flowering of the commonwealth. When people are thus devoted to their 
leaders, undertakings are possible, and even difficult and dangerous 
enterprises will succeed. Therefore in such times of progress and successful 
development it is necessary to work and make the best use of time. This time 
resembles that of the marriage of heaven and earth, when the earth partakes 
of the creative power of heaven, forming and bringing forth living beings.
The time of INCREASE does not endure, therefore it must be utilized while it 
lasts.

The Image

While observing how thunder and wind increase and strengthen each other, 
a man can not the way to self-increase and self-improvement. When he 
discovers good in others, he should imitate it and thus make everything on 
earth his own. If he perceives something bad in himself, let him rid himself 
of it. In this way he becomes free of evil. This ethical change represents the 
most important increase of personality.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

If great help comes to a man from on high, this increased strength must be 
used to achieve something great for which he might otherwise never have 
found energy, or readiness to take responsibility. Great good fortune is 
produced by selflessness, and in bringing about great good fortune, he 
remains free of reproach.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

A man brings about real increase by producing in himself the conditions for 
it, that it, through receptivity to and love of the good. Thus the thing for 
which he strives comes of itself, with the inevitability of natural law. Where 
increase is thus in harmony with the highest laws of the universe, it cannot 
be prevented by any constellation of accidents. But everything depends on his 
not letting unexpected good fortune make him heedless; he must make it his 
own through inner strength an steadfastness. Then he acquires meaning 
before God and man, and can accomplish something for the good of the 
world.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

A time of blessing and enrichment has such powerful effects that even events 
ordinarily unfortunate must turn out to the advantage of those affected by 
them. These persons become free of error, and by acting in harmony with 
truth they gain such inner authority that they exert influence as if sanctioned 
by the letter and seal.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

It is important that there should be men who mediate between leaders and 
followers. These should be disinterested people, especially in times of 
increase, since the benefit is to spread from the leader to the people. Nothing 
of this benefit should be held back in a selfish way; it should really reach those 
for whom it is intended. This sort of intermediary, who also exercises a good 
influence on the leader, is especially important in times when it is a matter of 
great undertakings, decisive for the future and requiring the inner assent of 
all concerned.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

True kindness does not count upon nor ask about merit and gratitude but acts 
from inner necessity. And such a truly kind heart finds itself rewarded in 
being recognized, and thus the beneficent influence will spread unhindered.

 The top line marked

The meaning here is that through renunciation those in high place should 
bring increase to those below. By neglecting this duty and helping no one, 
they in turn lose the furhtering influence of others and soon find themselves 
alone. In this way they invite attacks. An attitude not permanently in 
harmony with the demands of the time will necessarily bring misfortune 
with it. Confucius says about this line:

 The superior man sets his person at rest before he moves; he composes his 
mind before he speaks; he makes his relations firm before he asks for 
something. By attending to these three matters, the superior man gains 
complete security. But if a man is brusque in his movements, others will not 
cooperate. If he is agitated in his word, they awaken no echo in others. If he 
asks for something without having fist established relations, it will not be 
given to him. If no one is with him, those who would harm him draw near.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Wind upon Thunder

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

