110110
I Ching Hexagram 57.
Sun / The Gentle (The Penetrating, Wind)

Upper trigram: Sun The Gentle, Wind, Wood

Lower trigram: Sun The Gentle, Wind, Wood

The Judgement

The Gentle. Success through what is small.

It furthers one to have somewhere to go.

It furthers one to see the great man.

The Image

Winds following one upon the other:

The image of the Gently Penetrating.

Thus the superior man

Spreads his commands abroad

And carries out his undertakings.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

In advancing and in retreating,

The perseverance of a warrior furthers.

The 2nd line marked means:

Penetration under the bed.

Priests and magicians are used in great number.

Good fortune. No blame.

The 3rd line marked means:

Repeated penetration. Humiliation.

The 4th line marked means:

Remorse vanishes.

During the hunt

Three kinds of game are caught.

The 5th line marked means:

Perseverance brings good fortune.

Remorse vanishes.

Nothing that does not further.

No beginning, but an end.

Before the change, three days.

After the change, three days.

Good fortune.

The top line marked means:

Penetration under the bed.

He loses his property and his ax

Perseverance brings misfortune.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

Sun is one of the eight doubled trigrams. It is the eldest daughter and 
symbolizes wind or wood; it has for its attribute gentleness, which 
nonetheless penetrates like the wind or like growing wood with its roots.

 The dark principle, in itself rigid and immovable, is dissolved by the 
penetrating light principle, to which it subordinates itself in gentleness. In 
nature, it is the wind that disperses the gathered clouds, leaving the sky clear 
and serene. In human life it is penetrating clarity of judgment that thwarts 
all dark hidden motives. In the life of the community it is the powerful 
influence of a great personality that uncovers and breaks up those intrigues 
which shun the light of day.

The Judgement

Penetration produces gradual and inconspicuous effects. It should be effected 
not by an act of violation but by influence that never lapses. Results of this 
kind are less striking to the eye than those won by surprise attack, but they are 
more enduring and more complete. If one would produce such effects, one 
must have a clearly defined goal, for only when the penetrating influence 
works always in the same direction can the object be attained. Small strength 
can achieve its purpose only by subordinating itself to an eminent man who 
is capable of creating order.

The Image

The penetrating quality of the wind depends upon its ceaselessness. This is 
what makes it so powerful; time is its instrument. In the same way the 
ruler's thought should penetrate the soul of the people. This too requires a 
lasting influence brought about by enlightenment and command. Only when 
the command has been assimilated by the people is action in accordance with 
it possible. Action without preparation of the ground only frightens and 
repels.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

In born gentleness is often carried to the point of indecisiveness. One does 
not feel strong enough to advance resolutely. A thousand doubts crop up; one 
is, however, not minded to withdraw but drifts indecisively to and fro. In 
such a situation, a military decisiveness is the proper thing, so that one 
resolutely does what order demands. Resolute discipline is far better than 
irresolute license.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

At times one has to deal with hidden enemies, intangible influences that 
slink into dark corners and from this hiding affect people by suggestion. In 
instances like this, it is necessary to trace these things back to the most secret 
recesses, in order to determine the nature of the influences to be dealt with.
This is the task of the priests; removing the influences is the task of the 
magicians. The very anonymity of such plotting requires an especially 
vigorous and indefatigable effort, but this is well worth while. For when such 
elusive influences are brought into the light and branded, they lose their 
power over people.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

Penetrating reflection must not be pushed too far, lest it cripple the power of 
decision. After a matter has been thoroughly pondered, it is essential to form 
a decision and to act. Repeated deliberation brings fresh doubts and scruples, 
and thereby humiliation, because one shows oneself unable to act.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

When a responsible position and accumulated experience lead one to 
combine innate modesty with energetic action, great success is assured. The 
three kinds of animals referred to served for offerings to the gods, for feasting 
guests, and for everyday consumption. When the catch answered all three 
purposes, the hunt was considered especially successful.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

In the situation described in Ku, WORK ON WHAT HAS BEEN SPOILED 
(18), an entirely new point of departure must be set up, whereas here it is only 
a question of reforms. The beginning has not been good, but the moment has 
been reached when a new direction can be taken. Change and improvement 
are called for. Such steps must be undertaken with steadfastness, that is, with 
a firm and correct attitude of mind; then they will succeed, and remorse will 
disappear. But it must be remembered that such improvements require 
careful consideration. Before a change is made, it must be pondered over 
again and again. After the change is made, it is necessary to note carefully for 
some time after how the improvements bear the test of actuality. Such 
careful work is accompanied by good fortune.

 The top line marked

A man's understanding is sufficiently penetrating. He follows up injurious 
influences into the most secret corners. But he no longer has the strength to 
combat them decisively. In this case any attempt to penetrate into the 
personal domain of darkness would only bring harm.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Wind upon Wind

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

