110100
I Ching Hexagram 53.
Chien / Development (Gradual Progress)

Upper trigram: Sun The Gentle, Wind, Wood

Lower trigram: Kên Keeping Still, Mountain

The Judgement

Development. The maiden

Is given in marriage.

Good fortune.

Perseverance furthers.

The Image

On the mountain, a tree:

The image of Development.

Thus the superior man abides in dignity and virtue,

In order to improve the mores.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

The wild goose gradually draws near the shore.

The young son is in danger.

There is talk. No blame.

The 2nd line marked means:

The wild goose gradually draws near the cliff.

Eating and drinking in peace and concord.

Good fortune.

The 3rd line marked means:

The wild goose gradually draws near the plateau.

The man goes forth and does not return.

The woman carries a child but does not bring it forth.

Misfortune.

It furthers one to fight off robbers.

The 4th line marked means:

The wild goose gradually draws near the tree.

Perhaps it will find a flat branch. No blame.

The 5th line marked means:

The wild goose gradually draws near the summit.

For three years the woman has no child.

In the end nothing can hinder her.

Good fortune.

The top line marked means:

The wild goose gradually draws near the cloud heights.

Its feathers can be used for the sacred dance.

Good fortune.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

This hexagram is made up of Sun (wood, penetration) above, i.e., without, 
and Kên (mountain, stillness) below, i.e., within. A tree on a mountain 
develops slowly according to the law of its being and consequently stands 
firmly rooted. This gives the idea of a development that proceeds gradually, 
step by step. The attributes of the trigrams also point to this: within is 
tranquillity, which guards against precipitate actions, and without is 
penetration, which makes development and progress possible.

The Judgement

The development of events that leads to a girl's following a man to his home 
proceeds slowly. The various formalities must be disposed of before the 
marriage takes place. This principle of gradual development can be applied to 
other situations as well; it is always applicable where it is a matter of correct 
relationships of co-operation, as for instance in the appointment of an official.
The development must be allowed to take its proper course. Hasty action 
would not be wise. This is also true, finally, of any effort to exert influence on 
others, for here too the essential factor is a correct way of development 
through cultivation of one's own personality. No influence such as that 
exerted by agitators has a lasting effect.

 Within the personality too, development must follow the same course if 
lasting results are to be achieved. Gentleness that is adaptable, but at the same 
time penetrating, is the outer form that should proceed from inner calm.

 The very gradualness of the development makes it necessary to have 
perseverance, for perseverance alone prevents slow progress from dwindling 
to nothing.

The Image

The tree on the mountain is visible from afar, and its development 
influences the landscape of the entire region. It does not shoot up like a 
swamp plant; its growth proceeds gradually. Thus also the work of 
influencing people can be only gradual. No sudden influence or awakening 
is of lasting effect. Progress must be quite gradual, and in order to obtain such 
progress in public opinion and in the mores of the people, it is necessary for 
the personality to acquire influence and weight. This comes about through 
careful and constant work on one's own moral development.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

All the individual lines in this hexagram symbolize the gradual flight of the 
wild goose. The wild goose is the symbol of conjugal fidelity, because it is 
believed that this bird never takes another mate after the death of the first.

 The initial line suggests the first resting place in the flight of water birds 
from the water to the heights. The shore is reached. The situation is that of a 
lonely young man who is just starting out to make his way in life. Since no 
one comes to help him, his first steps are slow and hesitant, and he is 
surrounded by danger. Naturally he is subjected to much criticism. But these 
very difficulties keep him from being too hasty, and his progress is successful.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

The cliff is a safe place on shore. The development has gone a step further.
The initial insecurity has been overcome, and a safe position in life has been 
found, giving one enough to live on. This first success, opening up a path to 
activity, brings a certain joyousness of mood, and one goes to meet the future 
reassured.

 It is said of the wild goose that it calls to its comrades whenever it finds 
food; this is the symbol of peace and concord in good fortune. A man does 
not want to keep his good luck for himself only, but is ready to share it with 
others.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

The high plateau is dry and unsuitable for the wild goose. If it goes there, it 
has lost its way and gone too far. This is contrary to the law of development.

 It is the same in human life. If we do not let things develop quietly but 
plunge of our own choice too rashly into a struggle, misfortune results. A 
man jeopardizes his own life, and his family perishes thereby. However, this 
is not all necessary; it is only the result of transgressing the law of natural 
development. If one does not willfully provoke a conflict, but confines 
himself to vigorously maintaining his own position and to warding off 
unjustified attacks, all goes well.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

A tree is not a suitable place for a wild goose. But if it is clever, it will find a 
flat branch on which it can get a footing. A man's life too, in the course of its 
development, often brings him into inappropriate situations, in which he 
finds it difficult to hold his own without danger. Then it is important to be 
sensible and yielding. This enables him to discover a safe place in which life 
can go on, although he may be surrounded by danger.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

The summit is a high place. In a high position one easily becomes isolated.
One is misjudged by the very person on whom one is dependent-the woman 
by her husband, the official by his superior. This is the work of deceitful 
persons who have wormed their way in. The result is that relationships 
remain sterile, and nothing is accomplished. But in the course of further 
development, such misunderstandings are cleared away, and reconciliation is 
achieved after all.

 The top line marked

Here life comes to its end. A man's work stands completed. The path rises 
high toward heaven, like the flight of wild geese when they have left the 
earth far behind. There they fly, keeping to the order of their flight in strict 
formation. And if their feathers fall, they can serve as ornaments in the 
sacred dance pantomimes performed in the temples. Thus the life of a man 
who has perfected himself is a bright light for the people of earth, who look 
up to him as an example.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Wind upon Mountain

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

