110111
I Ching Hexagram 9.
Hsiao Ch'u / The Taming Power of the Small

Upper trigram: Sun The Gentle, Wind, Wood

Lower trigram: Ch'ien The Creative, Heaven

The Judgement

The Taming Power of the Small

Has success.

Dense clouds, no rain from our western region.

The Image

The wind drives across heaven:

The image of The Taming Power of the Small.

Thus the superior man

Refines the outward aspect of his nature.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Return to the way.

How could there be blame in this?

Good fortune.

The 2nd line marked means:

He allows himself to be drawn into returning.

Good fortune.

The 3rd line marked means:

The spokes burst out of the wagon wheel.

Man and wife roll their eyes.

The 4th line marked means:

If you are sincere, blood vanishes and fear gives way.

No blame.

The 5th line marked means:

If you are sincere and loyally attached,

You are rich in your neighbor.

The top line marked means:

The rain comes, there is rest.

This is due to the lasting affect of character.

Perseverance brings the woman into danger.

The moon is nearly full.

If the superior man persists,

Misfortune comes.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

This hexagram means the force of the small — the power of the shadowy — that 
restrains, tames, impedes. A weak line in the fourth place, that of the 
minister, holds the five strong lines in check. In the Image it is the wind 
blowing across the sky. The wind restrains the clouds, the rising breath of the 
Creative, and makes them grow dense, but as yet is not strong enough to turn 
them to rain. The hexagram presents a configuration of circumstances in 
which a strong element is temporarily held in leash by a weak element. It is 
only through gentleness that this can have a successful outcome.

The Judgement

This image refers to the state of affairs in China at the time when King Wên, 
who came originally from the west, was in the east at the court of the reigning 
tyrant Chou Hsin. The moment for action on a large scale had not yet 
arrived. King Wên could only keep the tyrant somewhat in check by friendly 
persuasion. Hence the image of many clouds, promising moisture and 
blessing to the land, although as yet no rain falls. The situation is not 
unfavorable; there is a prospect of ultimate success, but there are still obstacles 
in the way, and we can merely take preparatory measures. Only through the 
small means of friendly persuasion can we exert any influence. The time has 
not yet come for sweeping measures. However, we may be able, to a limited 
extent, to act as a restraining and subduing influence. To carry out our 
purpose we need firm determination within and gentleness and adaptability 
in external relations.

The Image

The wind can indeed drive the clouds together in the sky; yet, being nothing 
but air, without solid body, it does not produce great or lasting effects. So also 
an individual, in times when he can produce no great effect in the outer 
world, can do nothing except refine the expression of his nature in small 
ways.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

It lies in the nature of a strong man to press forward. In so doing he 
encounters obstructions. Therefore he returns to the way suited to his 
situation, where he is free to advance or to retreat. In the nature of things 
this will bring good fortune, for it is wise and reasonable not to try to obtain 
anything by force.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

One would like to press forward, but before going farther one sees from the 
example of others like oneself that this way is blocked. In such a case, if the 
effort to push forward is not in harmony with the time, a reasonable and 
resolute man will not expose himself to a personal rebuff, but will retreat 
with others of like mind. This brings good fortune, because he does not 
needlessly jeopardize himself.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

Here an attempt is made to press forward forcibly, in the consciousness that 
the obstructing power is slight. But since, under the circumstances, power 
actually lies with the weak, this sudden offensive is doomed to failure.
External conditions hinder the advance, just as loss of the wheel spokes stops 
the progress of a wagon. We do not yet heed this hint form fate, hence there 
are annoying arguments like those of a married couple. Naturally this is not 
a favorable state of thing, for though the situation may enable the weaker side 
to hold its ground, the difficulties are too numerous to permit of a happy 
result. In consequence even the strong man cannot so use his power as to 
exert the right influence on those around him. He experiences a rebuff where 
he expected an easy victory, and he thus compromises his dignity.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

If one is in the difficult and responsible position of counselor to a powerful 
man, on should restrain him in such a way that the threat of actual bloodshed 
may arise. Nonetheless, the power of disinterested truth is greater than all 
theses obstacles. It carries such weight that the end is achieved, and all danger 
of bloodshed and all fear disappear.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

Loyalty leads to firm ties because it means that each partner complements the 
other. In the weaker person loyalty consists in devotion, in the stronger it 
consists in trustworthiness. This relation of mutual reinforcement leads to a 
true wealth that is all the more apparent because it is not selfishly hoarded 
but is shared with friends. Pleasure shared is pleasure doubled.

 The top line marked

Success is at hand. The wind has driven up the rain. A fixed standpoint has 
been reach. This has come about through the cumulation of small effects 
produced by reverence for a superior character. But a success thus secured bit 
by bit calls for great caution. It would be a dangerous illusion for anyone to 
think he could presume upon it. The female principle, the weak element 
that has won the victory, should never persist in vaunting it — that would lead 
to danger. The dark power in the moon is strongest when the moon is 
almost full. When it is full and directly opposite the sun, its waning is 
inevitable. Under such circumstances one must be content with what has 
been achieved. To advance any further, before the appropriate time has 
come, would lead to misfortune.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Wind upon Heaven

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

