111100
I Ching Hexagram 33.
Tun / Retreat

Upper trigram: Ch'ien The Creative, Heaven

Lower trigram: Kên Keeping Still, Mountain

The Judgement

Retreat. Success.

In what is small, perseverance furthers.

The Image

Mountain under heaven: the image of Retreat.

Thus the superior man keeps the inferior man at a distance,

Not angrily but with reserve.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

At the tail in retreat. This is dangerous.

One must not wish to undertake anything.

The 2nd line marked means:

He holds him fast with yellow oxhide.

No one can tear him loose.

The 3rd line marked means:

A halted retreat

Is nerve-wracking and dangerous.

To retain people as men- and maidservants

Brings good fortune.

The 4th line marked means:

Voluntary retreat brings good fortune to the superior man

And downfall to the inferior man.

The 5th line marked means:

Friendly retreat. Perseverance brings good fortune.

The top line marked means:

Cheerful retreat. Everything serves to further.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

The power of the dark is ascending. The light retreats to security, so that the 
dark cannot encroach upon it. This retreat is a matter not of man's will but of 
natural law. Therefore in this case withdrawal is proper; it is the correct way 
to behave in order not to exhaust one's forces.

 In the calendar this hexagram is linked with the sixth month (July-August), 
in which the forces of winter are already showing their influence.

The Judgement

Conditions are such that the hostile forces favored by the time are advancing.
In this case retreat is the right course, and it is not to be confused with flight.
Flight means saving oneself under any circumstances, whereas retreat is a 
sign of strength. We must be careful not to miss the right moment while we 
are in full possession of power and position. Then we shall be able to 
interpret the signs of the time before it is too late and to prepare for 
provisional retreat instead of being drawn into a desperate life-and-death 
struggle. Thus we do not simple abandon the field to the opponent; we make 
it difficult for him to advance by showing perseverance in single acts of 
resistance. In this way we prepare, while retreating, for the counter-
movement. Understanding the laws of a constructive retreat of this sort is 
not easy. The meaning that lies hidden in such a time is important.

The Image

The mountain rises up under heaven, but owing to its nature it finally comes 
to a stop. Heaven on the other hand retreats upward before it into the 
distance and remains out of reach. This symbolizes the behavior of the 
superior man toward a climbing inferior; he retreats into his own thoughts as 
the inferior man comes forward. He does not hate him, for hatred is a form 
of subjective involvement by which we are bound to the hated object. The 
superior man shows strength (heaven) in that he brings the inferior man to a 
standstill (mountain) by his dignified reserve.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

Since the hexagram is the picture of something that is retreating, the lowest 
line represents the tail and the top line the head. In a retreat it is 
advantageous to be at the front. Here one is at the back, in immediate contact 
with the pursuing enemy. This is dangerous, and under such circumstances 
it is not advisable to undertake anything. Keeping still is the easiest way of 
escaping from the threatening danger.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

Yellow is the color of the middle. It indicates that which is correct and in line 
with duty. Oxhide is strong and not to be torn.

 While the superior men retreat and the inferior press after them, the 
inferior man represented here holds on so firmly and tightly to the superior 
man that the latter cannot shake him off. And because he is in quest of what 
is right an so strong in purpose, he reaches his goal. Thus the line confirms 
what is said in the Judgment: "In what is small" — here equivalent to "in the 
inferior man" — "perseverance furthers."

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

When it is time to retreat it is both unpleasant and dangerous to be held back, 
because then one no longer has freedom of action. In such a case the only 
expedient is to take into one's service, so to speak, those who refuse to let one 
go, so that one may at least keep one's initiative and not fall helplessly under 
their domination. But even with this expedient the situation is far from 
satisfactory — for what can one hope to accomplish with such servants?

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

In retreating the superior man is intent on taking his departure willingly and 
in all friendliness. He easily adjusts his mind to retreat, because in retreating 
he does not have to do violence to his convictions. The only one who suffers 
is the inferior man from whom he retreats, who will degenerate when 
deprived of the guidance of the superior man.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

It is the business of the superior man to recognize in time that the moment 
for retreat has come. If the right moment is chosen, the retreat can be carried 
out within the forms of perfect friendliness, without the necessity of 
disagreeable discussions. Yet, for all the observance of amenities, absolute 
firmness of decision is necessary if one is not to be led astray by irrelevant 
considerations.

 The top line marked

The situation is unequivocal. Inner detachment has become an established 
fact, and we are at liberty to depart. When one sees the way ahead thus 
clearly, free of all doubt, a cheerful mood sets in, and one chooses what is 
right without further thought. Such a clear path ahead always leads to the 
good.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Heaven upon Mountain

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

