000000
I Ching Hexagram 2.
K'un / The Receptive

Upper trigram: K'un The Receptive, Earth

Lower trigram: K'un The Receptive, Earth

The Judgement

The Receptive brings about sublime success,

Furthering through the perseverance of a mare.

If the superior man undertakes something and tries to lead,

He goes astray;

But if he follows, he finds guidance.

It is favorable to find friends in the west and south,

To forego friends in the east and north.

Quiet perseverance brings good fortune.

The Image

The earth's condition is receptive devotion.

Thus the superior man who has breadth of character

Carries the outer world.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

When there is hoarfrost underfoot,

Solid ice is not far off.

The 2nd line marked means:

Straight, square, great.

Without purpose,

Yet nothing remains unfurthered.

The 3rd line marked means:

Hidden lines.

One is able to remain persevering.

If by chance you are in the service of a king,

Seek not works, but bring to completion.

The 4th line marked means:

A tied-up sack. No blame, no praise.

The 5th line marked means:

A yellow lower garment brings supreme good fortune.

The top line marked means:

Dragons fight in the meadow.

Their blood is black and yellow.

All six lines marked means:

Lasting perseverance furthers.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

This hexagram is made up of broken lines only. The broken lines represents 
the dark, yielding, receptive primal power of yin. The attribute of the 
hexagram is devotion; its image is the earth. It is the perfect complement of 
THE CREATIVE — the complement, not the opposite, for the Receptive does 
not combat the Creative but completes it . It represents nature in contrast to 
spirit, earth in contrast to heaven, space as against time, the female-maternal 
as against the male-paternal. However, as applied to human affairs, the 
principle of this complementary relationship is found not only in the relation 
between man and woman, but also in that between prince and minister and 
between father and son. Indeed, even in the individual this duality appears 
in the coexistence of the spiritual world and the world of the senses.

 But strictly speaking there is no real dualism here, because there is a clearly 
defined hierarchic relationship between the two principles. In itself of course 
the Receptive is just as important as the Creative, but the attribute of 
devotion defines the place occupied by this primal power in relation to the 
Creative. For the Receptive must be activated and led by the Creative; then it 
is productive of good. Only when it abandons this position and tries to stand 
as an equal side by side with the Creative, does it become evil. The result 
then is opposition to and struggle against the Creative, which is productive of 
evil to both.

The Judgement

The four fundamental aspects of the Creative — "sublime success, furthering 
through perseverance" — are also attributed to the Receptive. Here, however, 
the perseverance is more closely defined: it is that of a mare. The Receptive 
connotes spatial reality in contrast to the spiritual potentiality of the Creative.
The potential becomes real and the spiritual becomes spatial through a 
specifically qualifying definition. Thus the qualification, "of a mare," is here 
added to the idea of perseverance. The horse belongs to earth just as the 
dragon belongs to heaven. Its tireless roaming over the plains is taken as a 
symbol of the vast expanse of the earth. This is the symbol chosen because 
the mare combines the strength and swiftness of the horse with the 
gentleness and devotion of the cow.

 Only because nature in its myriad forms corresponds with the myriad 
impulses of the Creative can it make these impulses real. Nature's richness 
lies in its power to nourish all living things; its greatness lies in its power to 
give then beauty and splendor. Thus it prospers all that lives. IT is the 
Creative that begets things, but they are brought to birth by the Receptive.
Applied to human affairs, therefore, what the hexagram indicated is action in 
conformity with the situation. The person in questions not in an 
independent position, but is acting as an assistant. This means that he must 
achieve something. It is not his task to try to lead — that would only make him 
lose the way-but to let himself be led. If he knows how to meet fate with an 
attitude of acceptance, he is sure to find the right guidance. The superior man 
lets himself be guided; he does not go ahead blindly, but learns from the 
situation what is demanded of him and then follows this intimation from 
fate.

 Since there is something to be accomplished, we need friends and helpers in 
the hour of toil and effort, once the ideas to be realized are firmly set. The 
time of toil and effort is indicated by the west and south, for west and south 
symbolize the place where the Receptive works for the Creative, as nature 
does in summer and autumn. If in that situation one does not mobilize all 
one's powers, the work to be accomplished will not be done. Hence to find 
friends there means to find guidance. But in addition to the time of toil and 
effort, there is also a time of planning, and for this we need this solitude. The 
east symbolized the place where a man receives orders from his master, and 
the north the place where he reports on what he has done. At that time he 
must be alone and objective. In this sacred hour he must do without 
companions. So that the purity of the moment may not be spoiled by fictional 
hates and favoritism.

The Image

Just as there is only one heaven, so too there is only one earth. In the 
hexagram of heaven the doubling of the trigram implies duration in time, 
but in the hexagram of earth the doubling connotes the solidity and extension 
in space by virtue of which the earth is able to carry and preserve all things 
that live and move upon it. The earth in its devotion carries all things, good 
and evil,, without exception. In the same way the superior man gives to his 
character breadth, purity, and sustaining power, so that he is able both to 
support and to bear with people and things.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

Just as the light-giving power represents life, so the dark power, the shadowy, 
represents death. When the first hoarfrost comes in the autumn, the power 
of darkness and cold is just at its beginning. After these first warnings, signs 
of death will gradually multiply, until, in obedience to immutable laws, stark 
winter with its ice is here.

 In life it is the same. After certain scarcely noticeable signs of decay have 
appeared, they go on increasing until final dissolution comes. But in life 
precautions can be taken by heeding the first signs of decay and checking them 
in time.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

The symbol of heaven is the circle, and that of earth is the square. Thus 
squareness is a primary quality of the earth. On the other hand, movement 
in a straight line, as well as magnitude, is a primary quality of the Creative.
But all square things have their origin in a straight line and into turn form 
solid bodies. In mathematics, when we discriminate between lines, planes 
and solids, we find that rectangular planes result from straight lines, and 
cubic magnitudes from rectangular planes. The Receptive accommodates 
itself to the qualities of the Creative and makes them its own. Thus a square 
develops out of a straight line and a cube out of a square. This is compliance 
with the laws of the Creative; nothing is taken away, nothing added.
Therefore the Receptive has no need of a special purpose of its own, nor of 
any effort' yet everything turns out as it should.

 Nature creates all beings without erring: this is its foursquareness. It 
tolerates all creatures equally: this is its greatness. Therefore it attains what is 
right for all without artifice or special intentions. Man achieves the height of 
wisdom when all that he does is as self-evident as what nature does.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

If a man is free of vanity he is able to conceal his abilities and keep them from 
attracting attention too soon; thus he can mature undisturbed. If conditions 
demand it, he can also enter public life, but that too he does with restraint.
The wise man gladly leaves fame to others. He does not seek to have credited 
to himself things that stand accomplished, but hopes to release active forces; 
that is, he completes his works in such a manner that they may bear fruit for 
the future.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

The dark element opens when it moves and closes when at rest. The strictest 
reticence is indicated here. The time is dangerous, because any degree of 
prominence leads either to the enmity of irresistible antagonists if one 
challenges them or to misconceived recognition if one is complaisant.
Therefore a man ought to maintain reserve, be it in solitude or in the turmoil 
of the world, for there too he can hide himself so well that no one knows 
him.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

Yellow is the color of the earth and of the middle; it is the symbol of that 
which is reliable and genuine. The lower garment is inconspicuously 
decorated — the symbol of aristocratic reserve. When anyone is called upon to 
work in a prominent but not independent position, true success depends on 
the utmost discretion. A man's genuineness and refinement should not 
reveal themselves directly; they should express themselves only indirectly as 
an effect from within.

 The top line marked

In the top place the dark element should yield to the light. If it attempts to 
maintain a position to which it is not entitled and to rule instead of serving, 
it draws down upon itself the anger of the strong. A struggle ensues in which 
it is overthrown, with injury, however, to both sides. The dragon, symbol of 
heaven, comes to fight the false dragon that symbolized the inflation of the 
earth principle. Midnight blue is the color of heaven; yellow is the color of 
earth. Therefore, when black and yellow blood flow, it is a sign that in this 
unnatural contest both primal powers suffer injury.

 All six lines marked

When nothing but sixes appears, the hexagram of THE RECEPTIVE changes 
into the hexagram of THE CREATIVE. By holding fast to what is right, it 
gains the power of enduring. There is indeed no advance, but neither is there 
retrogression.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Earth upon Earth

The basic polarity in ancient Chinese cosmology is that of Heaven and Earth, what's above and what's below. This hexagram is all about Earth. It's regarded as receptive, because it receives its powers and its laws from Heaven above.

 Day and night, rain and draught, storm and calm — all the mightiest forces are those coming from above. Earthly life simply has to adapt. But when doing so, it gives birth to all the creatures moving on its surface and all the plants growing from it. By receiving, the Earth becomes fertile and abundant.

 When the receptive rests on the receptive, we must learn to let things have their course. If we do, we succeed splendidly and there is great gain. If we don't, we must fail utterly. It's close to the Taoist idea of wu-wei, non-action, but that doesn't necessarily mean doing nothing — but doing what's called for, and nothing else.

 It's not easy to settle for accepting what can be done, instead of struggling for what can't. Sometimes, fate allows for the latter, but that's not the case if this hexagram appears in divination. It states firmly that now is the time to adapt one's ambition to what's realistic. Then, success will follow, and it will be both tangible and sweet.

Yin and Yang Significances

This hexagram consists of only Yin lines (broken instead of full), which makes it the most Yin of all I Ching hexagrams. Yin is the earthly, the dark, cold and moist. It's also the female.

000001
I Ching Hexagram 24.
Fu / Return (The Turning Point)

Upper trigram: K'un The Receptive, Earth

Lower trigram: Chên The Arousing, Thunder

The Judgement

Return. Success.

Going out and coming in without error.

Friends come without blame.

To and Fro goes the way.

On the seventh day comes return.

It furthers one to have somewhere to go.

The Image

Thunder within the earth:

The image of The Turning Point.

Thus the kings of antiquity closed the passes

At the time of solstice.

Merchants and strangers did not go about,

And the ruler

Did not travel through the provinces.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Return from a short distance.

No need for remorse.

Great good fortune.

The 2nd line marked means:

Quiet return. Good fortune.

The 3rd line marked means:

Repeated return. Danger. No blame.

The 4th line marked means:

Walking in the midst of others,

One returns alone.

The 5th line marked means:

Noblehearted return.

No remorse.

The top line marked means:

Missing the return. Misfortune.

Misfortune from within and without.

If armies are set marching in this way,

One will in the end suffer a great defeat,

Disastrous for the ruler of the country.

For ten years

It will not be possible to attack again.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

The idea of a turning point arises from the fact that after the dark lines have 
pushed all of the light lines upward and out of the hexagram, another light 
line enters the hexagram from below. The time of darkness is past. The 
winter solstice brings the victory of light. This hexagram is linked with the 
eleventh month, the month of the solstice (December-January).

The Judgement

After a time of decay comes the turning point. The powerful light that has 
been banished returns. There is movement, but it is not brought about by 
force. The upper trigram K'un is characterized by devotion; thus the 
movement is natural, arising spontaneously. For this reason the 
transformation of the old becomes easy. The old is discarded and the new is 
introduced. Both measures accord with the time; therefore no harm results.
Societies of people sharing the same views are formed. But since these 
groups come together in full public knowledge and are in harmony with the 
time, all selfish separatist tendencies are excluded, and no mistake is made.
The idea of RETURN is based on the course of nature. The movement is 
cyclic, and the course completes itself. Therefore it is not necessary to hasten 
anything artificially. Everything comes of itself at the appointed time. This is 
the meaning of heaven and earth.

 All movements are accomplished in six stages, and the seventh brings 
return. Thus the winter solstice, with which the decline of the year begins, 
comes in the seventh month after the summer solstice; so too sunrise comes 
in the seventh double hour after sunset. Therefore seven is the number of 
the young light, and it arises when six, the number of the great darkness, is 
increased by one. In this way the state of rest gives place to movement.

The Image

The winter solstice has always been celebrated in China as the resting time of 
the year — a custom that survives in the time of rest observed at the new year.
In winter the life energy, symbolized by thunder, the Arousing, is still 
underground. Movement is just at its beginning; therefore it must be 
strengthened by rest so that it will not be dissipated by being used 
prematurely. This principle, i.e., of allowing energy that is renewing itself to 
be reinforced by rest, applies to all similar situations. The return of health 
after illness, the return of understanding after an estrangement: everything 
must be treated tenderly and with care at the beginning, so that the return 
may lead to a flowering.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

Slight digressions from the good cannot be avoided, but one must turn back 
in time, before going too far. This is especially important in the development 
of character; every faintly evil thought must be put aside immediately, before 
it goes too far and takes root in the mind. Then there is no cause for remorse, 
and all goes well.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

Return always calls for a decision and is an act of self-mastery. It is made 
easier if a man is in good company. If he can bring himself to put aside pride 
and follow the example of good men, good fortune results.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

There are people of a certain inner instability who feel a constant urge to 
reverse themselves. There is danger in continually deserting the good 
because of uncontrolled desires, then turning back to it again because of a 
better resolution. However, since this does not lead to habituation in evil, a 
general inclination to overcome the defect is not wholly excluded/

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

A man is in a society composed of inferior people, but is connected spiritually 
with a strong and good friend, and this makes him turn back alone.
Although nothing is said of reward and punishment, this return is certainly 
favorable, for such a resolve to choose the good brings its own reward. 

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

When the time for return has come, a man should not take shelter in trivial 
excuses, but should look within and examine himself. And if he has done 
something wrong he should make a noblehearted resolve to confess his fault.
No one will regret having taken this road.

 The top line marked

If a man misses the right time for return, he meets with misfortune. The 
misfortune has its inner cause in a wrong attitude toward the world. The 
misfortune coming upon him for without results from this wrong attitude.
What is pictured here is blind obstinacy and the judgment that is visited 
upon it.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Earth upon Thunder

Thunder under the surface of the earth — that's an earthquake about to happen. So, this is a hexagram of imminent fundamental and dramatic change.

 Earth weighs heavily on its chaotic interior, keeping the turmoil contained. But it can only do so up to a point. Sooner or later, the ground will shake and break. The surface will change, whatever we do in an effort to prevent it. The natural forces are not tamed.

 Any big change has a similar scenario, whether caused by nature or by man. At first, status quo seems to persist, but the rumble from below grows. Revolution may be postponed, but not cancelled. Not all changes, but some of them, are irresistible at length. As they are suppressed, they build momentum and force. At a certain point, this breaks through any resistance.

 This heaxagram speaks of such changes — at the moment before they break through. The expansive force of the thunder penetrates earth to expand across the sky, the open space that pacifies any force by accepting it instead of trying to suppress it. Things return to a state of of balance, once the forces involved are are allowed to got their way.

Yin and Yang Significances

In this hexagram, only the bottom line is Yang (full), whereas all the five lines above it are Yin (broken). Yin is the earthly, the dark, cold and moist. Yang is the heavenly, the light, dry and warm. So, the tremendous excess of Yin is resisted by just one Yang — although in the key bottom position. That gives it strain, but also potency. This line may — against all odds — transform all those above it, as it strives to rise to its natural higher position. It represents a turning point, indeed. In spite of how it looks, anything can happen.

000010
I Ching Hexagram 7.
Shih / The Army

Upper trigram: K'un The Receptive, Earth

Lower trigram: K'an The Abysmal, Water

The Judgement

The Army. The army needs perseverance

And a strong man.

Good fortune without blame.

The Image

In the middle of the earth is water:

The image of The Army.

Thus the superior man increases his masses

By generosity toward the people.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

An army must set forth in proper order.

If the order is not good, misfortune threatens.

The 2nd line marked means:

In the midst of the army.

Good fortune. No blame.

The king bestows a triple decoration.

The 3rd line marked means:

Perchance the army carries corpses in the wagon.

Misfortune.

The 4th line marked means:

The army retreats. No blame.

The 5th line marked means:

There is game in the field.

It furthers one to catch it.

Without blame.

Let the eldest lead the army.

The younger transports corpses;

Then perseverance brings misfortune.

The top line marked means:

The great prince issues commands,

Founds states, vests families with fiefs.

Inferior people should not be employed.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

This hexagram is made up of the trigrams K'an, water, and K'un, earth, and 
thus it symbolizes the ground water stored up in the earth. In the same way 
military strength is stored up in the mass of the people — invisible in times of 
peace but always ready for use as a source of power. The attributes of the two 
trig rams are danger inside and obedience must prevail outside.

 Of the individual lines, the one that controls the hexagram is the strong 
nine in the second place, to which the other lines, all yielding, are 
subordinate. This line indicates a commander, because it stands in the 
middle of one of the two trigrams. But since it is in the lower rather than the 
upper trigram, it represents not the ruler but the efficient general, who 
maintains obedience in the army by his authority.

The Judgement

An army is a mass that needs organization in order to become a fighting force. 
Without strict discipline nothing can be accomplished, but this discipline 
must not be achieved by force. It requires a strong man who captures the 
hearts of the people and awakens their enthusiasm. In order that he may 
develop his abilities he needs the complete confidence of his ruler, who must 
entrust him with full responsibility as long as the war lasts. But war is always 
a dangerous thing and brings with it destruction and devastation. Therefore 
it should not be resorted to rashly but, like a poisonous drug, should be used 
as a last recourse.

The Image

Ground water is invisibly present within the earth. In the same way the 
military power of a people is invisibly present in the masses. When danger 
threatens, every peasant becomes present in the masses. When danger 
threatens, every peasant becomes a soldier; when the war ends, he goes back 
to his plow. He who is generous toward the people wins their love, and a 
people living under a mild rule becomes strong and powerful. Only a people 
economically strong can be important in military power. Such power must 
therefore be cultivated by improving the economic condition of the people 
and by humane government. Only when there is this invisible bond between 
government and people, so that the people are sheltered by their 
government as ground water is sheltered by the earth, is it possible to wage a 
victorious war.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

At the beginning of a military enterprise, order is imperative. A just and 
valid cause must exist, and the obedience and coordination of the troops must 
be well organized, otherwise the result is inevitably failure.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

The leader should be in the midst of his army, in touch with it, sharing good 
and bad with the masses he leads. This alone makes him equal to the heavy 
demands made upon him. He needs also the recognition of the ruler. The 
decorations he receives are justified, because there is no question of personal 
preferment here: the whole army, whose center he is, is honored in his 
person.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

Here we have a choice of two explanations. One points to defeat because 
someone other than the chosen leader interferes with the command; the 
other is similar in its general meaning, but the expression, "carries corpses in 
the wagon," is interpreted differently. At burials and at sacrifices to the dead it 
was customary in China for the deceased to whom the sacrifice was made to 
be represented by a boy of the family, who sat in the dead man's place and was 
honored as his representative. On the basis of this custom the text is 
interpreted as meaning that a "corpse boy" is sitting in the wagon, or, in 
other words, that authority is not being exercised by the proper leaders but has 
been usurped by others. Perhaps the whole difficulty clears up if it is inferred 
that there has been an error in copying. The character fan, meaning "all," may 
have been misread as shih, which means "corpse." Allowing for this error, 
the meaning would be that if the multitude assumes leadership of the army 
(rides in the wagon), misfortune will ensue.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

In the face of a superior enemy, with whom it would be hopeless to engage in 
battle, an orderly retreat is the only correct procedure, because it will save the 
army from defeat and disintegration. It is by no means a sign of courage or 
strength to insist upon engaging in a hopeless struggle regardless of 
circumstances.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

Game is in the field — it has left its usual haunts in the forest and is 
devastating the fields. This points to an enemy invasion. Energetic combat 
and punishment are here thoroughly justified, but they must not degenerate 
into a wild melee in which everyone fends for himself. Despite the greatest 
degree of perseverance and bravery, this would lead to misfortune. The army 
must be directed by an experienced leader. It is a matter of waging war, not of 
permitting the mob to slaughter all who fall into their hands; if they do, 
defeat will be the result, and despite all perseverance there is danger of 
misfortune.

 The top line marked

The war has ended successfully, victory is won, and the king divided estates 
and fiefs among his faithful vassals. But it is important that inferior people 
should not come into power. If they have helped, let them be paid off with 
money, but they should not be awarded lands or the privileges of rulers, lest 
power be abused.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Earth upon Water

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

Yin and Yang Significances

The hexagram is quite unbalanced between Yin and Yang. Only one of the lines is Yang (full), and all the others Yin (broken). Not only that, but the solitary Yang line is second from bottom, which is not a strong position. It is neither the base nor the top, but squeezed by Yin from both sides.

 So, this is a grim hexagram, where the sole gleam of light is completely covered by darkness. Indeed, a powerful image of the army. As Dante's sign on the gate of Hell: "Abandon all hope, ye who enter here."

 Yin stands for darkness, cold and earthly, whereas Yang is light, warmth and the heavenly. This hexagram's rule of Yin suggests people acting with no concern for the will of heaven. They make themselves blind to elevated perspectives, in order to pursue violently materialistic cravings.

 But they can't dsitinguish the light completely. That one Yang line continues shine, albeit ever so slightly, in the midst of it. A reminder of the need for contemplation of what really counts at length, and of what power prevails.

 This unfortunate unbalance between Yin and Yang shows a problem of such magnitude it seems only to be soluble by brute force. But such forces tend to create more problems than they solve — and no matter the mayhem: the final outcome is decided by other forces.

000011
I Ching Hexagram 19.
Lin / Approach

Upper trigram: K'un The Receptive, Earth

Lower trigram: Tui The Joyous, Lake

The Judgement

Approach has supreme success.

Perseverance furthers.

When the eight month comes,

There will be misfortune.

The Image

The earth above the lake:

The image of Approach.

Thus the superior man is inexhaustible

In his will to teach,

And without limits

In his tolerance and protection of the people.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Joint approach.

Perseverance brings good fortune.

The 2nd line marked means:

Joint approach.

Good fortune.

Everything furthers.

The 3rd line marked means:

Comfortable approach.

Nothing that would not further.

If one is induced to grieve over it,

One becomes free of blame.

The 4th line marked means:

Complete approach.

No blame.

The 5th line marked means:

Wise approach.

This is right for a great prince.

Good fortune.

The top line marked means:

Greathearted approach.

Good fortune. No blame.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

The Chinese word lin has a range of meanings that is not exhausted by any 
single word of another language. The ancient explanations in the Book of 
Changes give as its first meaning, "becoming great." What becomes great are 
the two strong lines growing into the hexagram from below; the light-giving 
power expands with them. The meaning is then further extended to include 
the concept of approach, especially the approach of what is lower. Finally the 
meaning includes the attitude of condescension of a man in high position 
toward the people, and in general the setting to work on affairs. This 
hexagram is linked with the twelfth month (January-February), when after 
the winter solstice, the light power begins to ascend again.

The Judgement

The hexagram as a whole points to a time of joyous, hopeful progress. Spring 
is approaching. Joy and forbearance bring high and low nearer together.
Success is certain. But we must work with determination and perseverance 
to make full use of the propitiousness of the time. And on thing more: 
spring does not last forever. In the eighth month the aspects are reversed.
Then only two strong, light lines are left; these do not advance but are in 
retreat (see next hexagram). We must take heed of this change in good time.
If we meet evil before it becomes reality-before it has even begun to stir-we 
can master it.

The Image

The earth borders upon the lake from above. This symbolizes the approach 
and condescension of the man of higher position to those beneath him. The 
two parts of the image indicate what his attitude toward these people will be.
Just as the lake is inexhaustible in depth, so the sage is inexhaustible in his 
readiness to teach mankind, and just as the earth is boundlessly wide, 
sustaining and caring for all creatures on it, so the sage sustains and cares for 
all people and excludes no part of humanity.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

The good begins to prevail and to find response in influential circles. This in 
turn is an incentive to men of ability. IT is well to join this upward trend, but 
we must not let ourselves be carried away by the current of the time; we must 
adhere perseveringly to what is right. This brings good fortune.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

When the stimulus to approach comes from a high place, and when a man 
has the inner strength and consistency that need no admonition, good 
fortune will ensue. Nor need the future cause any concern. He is well aware 
that everything earthly is transitory, and that a descent follows upon every 
rise, but need not be confused by this universal law of fate. Everything serves 
to further. Therefore he will travel the paths of life swiftly, honestly, and 
valiantly.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

Things are going well for a man: he achieves power and influence. But in 
this lies the danger that he may relax, and confident of his position, allow the 
easygoing, careless mood to show itself in his dealings with other people.
This would inevitably be harmful. But there is possibility of a change of 
mood. If he regrets his mistaken attitude and feels the responsibility of an 
influential position, he frees himself of faults.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

While the three lower lines indicate rise to power and influence, the three 
upper lines show the attitude of persons in higher position toward those of 
lower rank for whom they procure influence. Here is shown the open-
minded approach of a person of high rank to a man of ability whom he draws 
in to his own circle, regardless of class prejudice. This is very favorable. 

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

A prince, or anyone in a leading position, must have the wisdom to attract to 
himself people of ability who are expert in directing affairs. His wisdom 
consists both in selecting the right people and in allowing those chosen to 
have a free hand without interference from him. For only through such self-
restraint will he find the experts needed to satisfy all of his requirements.

 The top line marked

A sage who has put the world behind him and who in spirit has already 
withdrawn from life may, under certain circumstances, decide to return once 
more to the here and now and to approach other men. This means great 
good fortune for the men whom he teaches and helps. And for him this great 
hearted humbling of himself is blameless.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Earth upon Lake

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

000100
I Ching Hexagram 15.
Ch'ien / Modesty

Upper trigram: K'un The Receptive, Earth

Lower trigram: Kên Keeping Still, Mountain

The Judgement

Modesty creates success.

The superior man carries things through.

The Image

Within the earth, a mountain:

The image of Modesty.

Thus the superior man reduces that which is too much,

And augments that which is too little.

He weighs things and makes them equal.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

A superior man modest about his modesty

May cross the great water.

Good fortune.

The 2nd line marked means:

Modesty that comes to expression.

Perseverance brings good fortune.

The 3rd line marked means:

A superior man of modesty and merit

Carries things to conclusion.

Good fortune.

The 4th line marked means:

Nothing that would not further modesty

In movement.

The 5th line marked means:

No boasting of wealth before one's neighbor.

It is favorable to attack with force.

Nothing that would not further.

The top line marked means:

Modesty that comes to expression.

It is favorable to set armies marching

To chastise one's own city and one's country.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

This hexagram is made up of the trigrams Kên, Keeping Still, mountain, and 
K'un. The mountain is the youngest son of the Creative, the representative 
of heaven and earth. It dispenses the blessings of heaven, the clouds and rain 
that gather round its summit, and thereafter shines forth radiant with 
heavenly light. This shows what modesty is and how it functions in great 
and strong men. K'un, the earth, stands above. Lowliness is a quality of the 
earth: this is the very reason why it appears in this hexagram as exalted, by 
being placed above the mountain. This shows how modesty functions in 
lowly, simple people: they are lifted up by it.

The Judgement

It is the law of heaven to make fullness empty and to make full what is 
modest; when the sun is at its zenith, it must, according to the law of heaven, 
turn toward its setting, and at its nadir it rises toward a new dawn. In 
obedience to the same law, the moon when it is full begins to wane, and 
when empty of light it waxes again. This heavenly law works itself out in the 
fates of men also. It is the law of earth to alter the full and to contribute to the 
modest. High mountains are worn down by the waters, and the valleys are 
filled up. It is the law of fate to undermine what is full and to prosper the 
modest. And men also hate fullness and love the modest.

 The destinies of men are subject to immutable laws that must fulfill 
themselves. But man has it in his power to shape his fate, according as his 
behavior exposes him to the influence of benevolent or of destructive forces.
When a man holds a high position and is nevertheless modest, he shines 
with the light of wisdom; if he is in a lowly position and is modest, he cannot 
be passed by. Thus the superior man can carry out his work to the end 
without boasting of what he has achieved.

The Image

The wealth of the earth in which a mountain is hidden is not visible to the 
eye, because the depths are offset by the height of the mountain. Thus high 
and low competent each other and the result is the plain. Here an effect that 
it took a long time to achieve, but that in the end seems easy of 
accomplishment and self-evident, is used as the image of modesty. The 
superior man does the same thing when he establishes order in the world; he 
equalizes the extremes that are the source of social discontent and thereby 
creates just and equable conditions.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

A dangerous enterprise, such as the crossing of a great stream, is made much 
more difficult if many claims and considerations have to be taken into 
account. On the other hand, the task is easy if it is attended to quickly and 
simply. Therefore the unassuming attitude of mind that goes with modesty 
fits a man to accomplish even difficult undertakings: he imposes no 
demands or stipulations but settles matters easily and quickly. Where no 
claims are put forward, no resistances arise.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

"Out of the fullness of the heart the mouth speaketh." When a man's 
attitude of mind is so modest that this expresses itself in his outward 
behavior, it is a source of good fortune to him. For the possibility of exerting 
a lasting influence arises of itself and no one can interfere.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

This is the center of the hexagram, where its secret is disclosed. A 
distinguished name is readily earned by great achievements. If a man allows 
himself to be dazzled by fame, he will soon be criticized, and difficulties will 
arise. If, on the contrary, he remains modest despite his merit, he makes 
himself beloved and wins the support necessary for carrying his work 
through to the end.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

Everything has its proper measure. Even modesty in behavior can be carried 
too far. Here, however, it is appropriate, because the place between a worthy 
helper below and a kindly ruler above carries great responsibility. The 
confidence of the man in superior place must not be abused nor the merits of 
the man in inferior placed concealed. There are officials who indeed do not 
strive for prominence; they hide behind the letter of ordinances, decline all 
responsibility, accept pay without giving its equivalent in work, and bear 
empty titles. This is the opposite of what is meant here by modesty. In such a 
position, modesty is shown by interest in one's work.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

Modesty is not to be confused with weak good nature that lets things take 
their own course. When a man holds a responsible position, he must at times 
resort to energetic measures. In doing so he must not try to make an 
impression by boasting of his superiority but must make certain of the people 
around him. The measures taken should be purely objective and in no way 
personally offensive. Thus modesty manifests itself even in severity.

 The top line marked

A person who is really sincere in his modesty must make it show in reality.
He must proceed with great energy in this. When enmity arises nothing is 
easier than to lay the blame on another. A weak man takes offense perhaps, 
and draws back, feeling self-pity; he thinks that it is modesty that keeps him 
from defending himself. Genuine modesty sets one to creating order and 
inspires one to begin by disciplining one's own ego and one's immediate 
circle. Only through having the courage to marshal one's armies against 
oneself, will something forceful really be achieved.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Earth upon Mountain

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

000101
I Ching Hexagram 36.
Ming I / Darkening of the Light

Upper trigram: K'un The Receptive, Earth

Lower trigram: Li The Clinging, Flame

The Judgement

Darkening of the Light. In adversity

It furthers one to be persevering.

The Image

The light has sunk into the earth:

The image of Darkening of the Light.

Thus does the superior man live with the great mass:

He veils his light, yet still shines.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Darkening of the light during flight.

He lowers his wings.

The superior man does not eat for three days

On his wanderings.

But he has somewhere to go.

The host has occasion to gossip about him.

The 2nd line marked means:

Darkening of the light injures him in the left thigh.

He gives aid with the strength of a horse.

Good fortune.

The 3rd line marked means:

Darkening of the light during the hunt in the south.

Their great leader is captured.

One must not expect perseverance too soon.

The 4th line marked means:

He penetrates the left side of the belly.

One gets at the very heart of the darkening of the light,

And leaves gate and courtyard.

The 5th line marked means:

Darkening of the light as with Prince Chi.

Perseverance furthers.

The top line marked means:

Not light but darkness.

First he climbed up to heaven,

Then he plunged into the depths of the earth.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

Here the sun has sunk under the earth and is therefore darkened. The name 
of the hexagram means literally "wounding of the bright"; hence the 
individual lines contain frequent references to wounding. The situation is 
the exact opposite of that in the foregoing hexagram. In the latter a wise man 
at the head of affairs has able helpers, and in company with them makes 
progress; here a man of dark nature is in a position of authority and brings 
harm to the wise and able man.

The Judgement

One must not unresistingly let himself be swept along by unfavorable 
circumstances, nor permit his steadfastness to be shaken. He can avoid this by 
maintaining his inner light, while remaining outwardly yielding and 
tractable. With this attitude he can overcome even the greatest adversities.

 In some situations indeed a man must hide his light, in order to make his 
will prevail inspite of difficulties in his immediate environment.
Perseverance must dwell in inmost consciousness and should not be 
discernible from without. Only thus is a man able to maintain his will in the 
face of difficulties.

The Image

In a time of darkness it is essential to be cautious and reserved. One should 
not needlessly awaken overwhelming enmity by inconsiderate behavior. In 
such times one ought not to fall in with the practices of others; neither 
should one drag them censoriously into the light. In social intercourse one 
should not try to be all-knowing. One should let many things pass, without 
being duped.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

With grandiose resolve a man endeavors to soar above all obstacles, but thus 
encounters a hostile fate. He retreats and evades the issue. The time is 
difficult. Without rest, he must hurry along, with no permanent abiding 
place. If he does not want to make compromises within himself, but insists 
on remaining true to his principles, he suffers deprivation. Never the less he 
has a fixed goal to strive for even though the people with whom he lives do 
not understand him and speak ill of him.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

Here the Lord of Light is in a subordinate place and is wounded by the Lord of 
Darkness. But the injury is not fatal; it is only a hindrance. Rescue is still 
possible. The wounded man gives no thought to himself; he thinks only of 
saving the others who are also in danger. Therefore he tries with all his 
strength to save all that can be saved. There is good fortune in thus acting 
according to duty.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

It seems as if chance were at work. While the strong, loyal man is striving 
eagerly and in good faith to create order, he meets the ringleader of the 
disorder, as if by accident, and seizes him. Thus victory is achieved. But in 
abolishing abuses one must not be too hasty. This would turn out badly 
because the abuses have been in existence so long.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

We find ourselves close to the commander of darkness and so discover his 
mot secret thoughts. In this way we realize that there is no longer any hope of 
improvement, and thus we are enabled to leave the scene of disaster before 
the storm breaks.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

Prince Chi lived at the court of the evil tyrant Chou Hsin, who, although not 
mentioned by name, furnished the historical example on which this whole 
situation is based. Prince Chi was a relative of the tyrant and could not 
withdraw from the court; therefore he concealed his true sentiments and 
feigned insanity. Although he was held a slave, he did not allow external 
misery to deflect him from his convictions.

 This provides a teaching for those who cannot leave their posts in times of 
darkness. In order to escape danger, they need invincible perseverance of 
spirit and redoubled caution in their dealings with the world.

 The top line marked

Here the climax of the darkening is reached. The dark power at first held so 
high a place that it could wound all who were on the side of good and of the 
light. But in the end it perishes of its own darkness, for evil must itself fall at 
the very moment when it has wholly overcome the good, and thus 
consumed the energy to which it owed its duration.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Earth upon Flame

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

000110
I Ching Hexagram 46.
Shêng / Pushing Upward

Upper trigram: K'un The Receptive, Earth

Lower trigram: Sun The Gentle, Wind, Wood

The Judgement

Pushing upward has supreme success.

One must see the great man.

Fear not.

Departure toward the south

Brings good fortune.

The Image

Within the earth, wood grows:

The image of Pushing Upward.

Thus the superior man of devoted character

Heaps up small things

In order to achieve something high and great.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Pushing upward that meets with confidence

Brings great good fortune.

The 2nd line marked means:

If one is sincere,

It furthers one to bring even a small offering.

No blame.

The 3rd line marked means:

One pushes upward into an empty city.

The 4th line marked means:

The king offers him Mount Ch'i.

Good fortune. No blame.

The 5th line marked means:

Perseverance brings good fortune.

One pushes upward by steps.

The top line marked means:

Pushing upward in darkness.

It furthers one

to be unremittingly persevering.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

The lower trigram, Sun, represents wood, and the upper, K'un, means the 
earth. Linked with this is the idea that wood in the earth grows upward. In 
contrast to the meaning of Chin, PROGRESS (35), this pushing upward is 
associated with effort, just as a plant needs energy for pushing upward 
through the earth. That is why this hexagram, although it is connected with 
success, is associated with effort of the will. In PROGRESS the emphasis is on 
expansion; PUSHING UPWARD indicates rather a vertical ascent-direct rise 
from obscurity and lowliness to power and influence.

The Judgement

The pushing upward of the good elements encounters no obstruction and is 
therefore accompanied by great success. The pushing upward is made 
possible not by violence but by modesty and adaptability. Since the individual 
is borne along by the propitiousness of the time, he advances. He must go to 
see authoritative people. He need not be afraid to do this, because success is 
assured. But he must set to work, for activity (this is the meaning of "the 
south") brings good fortune.

The Image

Adapting itself to obstacles and bending around them, wood in the earth 
grows upward without haste and without rest. Thus too the superior man is 
devoted in character and never pauses in his progress.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

This situation at the beginning of ascent. Just as wood draws strength for its 
upward push from the root, which in itself is in the lowest place, so the 
power to rise comes from this low and obscure station. But there is a spiritual 
affinity with the rulers above, and this solidarity creates the confidence 
needed to accomplish something.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

Here a strong man is presupposed. It is true that he does not fit in with his 
environment, inasmuch as he is too brusque and pays too little attention to 
form. But as he is upright in character, he meets with response, and his lack 
of outward form does no harm. Here uprightness is the outcome of sound 
qualities of character, whereas in the corresponding line of the preceding 
hexagram it is the result of innate humility.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

All obstructions that generally block progress fall away here. Things proceed 
with remarkable ease. Unhesitatingly one follows this road, in order to profit 
by one's success. Seen from without, everything seems to be in the best of 
order. However, no promise of good fortune is added. It is a question how 
long such unobstructed success can last. But it is wise not to yield to such 
misgivings, because they only inhibit one's power. Instead, the point is to 
profit by the propitiousness of time.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

Mount Ch'i is in the western China, the homeland of King Wên, whose son, 
the Duke of Chou, added the words to the individual lines. The 
pronouncement takes us back to a time when the Chou dynasty was coming 
into power. At that time King Wên introduced his illustrious helpers to the 
god of his native mountain, and they received their places in the halls of the 
ancestors by the side of the ruler. This indicates a stage in which pushing 
upward attains its goal. One acquires fame in the sight of gods and men, is 
received into the circle of those who foster the spiritual life of the nation, and 
thereby attains a significance that endures beyond time.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

When a man is advancing farther and farther, it is important for him not to 
become intoxicated by success. Precisely when he experiences great success it 
is necessary to remain sober and not to try to skip any stages; he must go on 
slowly, step by step, as though hesitant. Only such calm, steady progress, 
overleaping nothing, leads to the goal.

 The top line marked

He who pushes upward blindly deludes himself. He knows only advance, 
not retreat. But this means exhaustion. In such a case it is important to be 
constantly mindful that one must be conscientious and consistent and must 
remain so. Only thus does one become free of blind impulse, which is always 
harmful.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Earth upon Wind

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

000111
I Ching Hexagram 11.
T'ai / Peace

Upper trigram: K'un The Receptive, Earth

Lower trigram: Ch'ien The Creative, Heaven

The Judgement

Peace. The small departs,

The great approaches.

Good fortune. Success.

The Image

Heaven and earth unite: the image of Peace.

Thus the ruler

Divides and completes the course of heaven and earth;

He furthers and regulates the gifts of heaven and earth,

And so aids the people.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

When ribbon grass is pulled up, the sod comes with it.

Each according to his kind.

Undertakings bring good fortune.

The 2nd line marked means:

Bearing with the uncultured in gentleness,

Fording the river with resolution,

Not neglecting what is distant,

Not regarding one's companions:

Thus one may manage to walk in the middle.

The 3rd line marked means:

No plain not followed by a slope.

No going not followed by a return.

He who remains persevering in danger

Is without blame.

Do not complain about this truth;

Enjoy the good fortune you still possess.

The 4th line marked means:

He flutters down, not boasting of his wealth,

Together with his neighbor,

Guileless and sincere.

The 5th line marked means:

The sovereign I

Gives his daughter in marriage.

This brings blessing

And supreme good fortune.

The top line marked means:

The wall falls back into the moat.

Use no army now.

Make your commands known within your own town.

Perseverance brings humiliation.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

The Receptive, which moves downward, stands above; the Creative, which 
moves upward, is below. Hence their influences meet and are in harmony, 
so that all living things bloom and prosper. This hexagram belongs to the 
first month (February-March), at which time the forces of nature prepare the 
new spring.

The Judgement

This hexagram denotes a time in nature when heaven seems to be on earth.
Heaven has placed itself beneath the earth, and so their powers unite in deep 
harmony. Then peace and blessing descend upon all living things.

 In the world of man it is a time of social harmony; those in high places 
show favor to the lowly, and the lowly and inferior is an end to all feuds.

 In side, at the center, in the key position, is the light principle; the dark 
principle is outside. Thus the light has a powerful influence, while the dark 
is submissive. In this way each receives its due. When the good elements of 
society occupy a central position and are in control, the evil elements come 
under their influence and change for the better. When the spirit of heaven 
rules in man, his animal nature also comes under its influence and takes its 
appropriate place.

 The individual lines enter the hexagram from below and leave it again at 
the top. Here the small, weak, and evil elements are about to take their 
departure, while the great, strong, and good elements are moving up. This 
brings good fortune and success.

The Image

Heaven and earth are in contact and combine their influences, producing a 
time of universal flowering and prosperity. This stream of energy must be 
regulated by the ruler of men. It is done by a process of division. Thus men 
divide the uniform flow of time into the seasons, according to the succession 
of natural phenomena, and mark off infinite space by the points of the 
compass. In this way nature in its overwhelming profusion of phenomena is 
bounded and controlled. One the other hand, nature must be furthered in 
her productiveness. This is done by adjusting the products to the right time 
and the right place, which increases the natural yield. This controlling and 
furthering activity of man in his relation to nature is the work on nature that 
rewards him.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

In times of prosperity every able man called to fill an office draws like minded 
people along with him, just as in pulling up ribbon grass one always pulls up 
a bunch of it, because the stalks are connected by their roots. In such times, 
when it is possible to extend influence widely, the mind of an able man is set 
upon going out into life and accomplishing something.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

In times of prosperity it is important and above all to possess enough 
greatness of soul to bear with imperfect people. For in the hands of a great 
master no material is unproductive; he can find use for everything. But this 
generosity is by no means laxity or weakness. It is during times of prosperity 
especially that we must always be ready to risk even dangerous undertakings, 
such as the crossing of a river, if they are necessary. So too we must not 
neglect what is distant but must attend scrupulously to everything.
Factionalism and the dominance of cliques are especially to be avoided. Even 
if people of like mind come forward together, they ought not to form a faction 
by holding together for mutual advantage; instead, each man should do is 
duty. Theses are four ways in which one can overcome the hidden danger of 
a gradual slackening that always lurks in any time of peace. And that is how 
one finds the middle way for action.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

Everything on earth is subject to change. Prosperity is followed by decline: 
this is the eternal law on earth. Evil can indeed be held in check but not 
permanently abolished. It always returns. This conviction might induct 
melancholy, but it should not; it ought only to keep us from falling into 
illusion when good fortune comes to us. If we continue mindful of the 
danger, we remain persevering and make no mistakes. As long as a man's 
inner nature remains stronger and richer than anything offered by external 
fortune, as long as he remains inwardly superior to fate, fortune will not 
desert him.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

In times of mutual confidence, people of high rank come in close contact with 
the lowly quite simply and without boasting of their wealth. This is not due 
to the force of circumstances but corresponds with their inmost sentiment.
The approach is made quite spontaneously, because it is based on inner 
conviction.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

The sovereign I is T'ang the Completer. By his decree the imperial princesses, 
although higher in rank than their husbands, had to obey them like all other 
wives. Here too we are shown a truly modest union of high and low that 
brings happiness and blessings.

 The top line marked

The change alluded to in the middle of the hexagram has begun to take place.
The wall of the town sinks back into the moat from which it was dug. The 
hour of doom is at hand. When matters have come to this pass, we should 
submit to fate and not try to stave it off by violent resistance. The one 
recourse left us is to hold our own within our intimate circle. Should we 
persevere in trying to resist the evil in the usual way, our collapse would only 
be more complete, and humiliation would be the result.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Earth upon Heaven

This is an absurdity. How can Earth rest upon Heaven, how can Heaven settle under Earth? Yet, there is balance between them. And even from below, mighty Heaven can support Earth and make it bloom.

 But it must be understood as a unique occasion. It may be splendid, bringing abundant and lasting success, but this opportunity cannot be expected to recur anytime soon.

 If this hexagram appears in divination, it shows a unique opportunity to accomplish what would normally be impossible. Something great, something overwhelming. Grab the opportunity, because it's not likely to come back, at least not in this splendor.

 It's the hexagram of peace, because in the success it brings, nobody thinks of war. It's the blessing of peace — everyone avoids the horrors of war, and is free to explore the countless possibilities that life contains.

Yin and Yang Significances

The hexagram has a perfect balance between Yin (broken) and Yang (full) lines, although upside-down. The basic forces of the world are in balance, albeit oddly misplaced. Still, they make a complete whole. Sometimes the world is upside-down. That's how it renews itself, and so can we at such times.

001000
I Ching Hexagram 16.
Yu / Enthusiasm

Upper trigram: Chên The Arousing, Thunder

Lower trigram: K'un The Receptive, Earth

The Judgement

Enthusiasm. It furthers one to install helpers

And to set armies marching.

The Image

Thunder comes resounding out of the earth:

The image of Enthusiasm.

Thus the ancient kings made music

In order to honor merit,

And offered it with splendor

To the Supreme Deity,

Inviting their ancestors to be present.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Enthusiasm that expresses itself

Brings misfortune.

The 2nd line marked means:

Firm as a rock. Not a whole day.

Perseverance brings good fortune.

The 3rd line marked means:

Enthusiasm that looks upward creates remorse.

Hesitation brings remorse.

The 4th line marked means:

The source of enthusiasm.

He achieves great things.

Doubt not.

You gather friends around you

As a hair clasp gathers the hair.

The 5th line marked means:

Persistently ill, and still does not die.

The top line marked means:

Deluded enthusiasm.

But if after completion one changes,

There is no blame.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

The strong line in the fourth place, that of the leading official, meets with 
response and obedience from all the other lines, which are all weak. The 
attribute of the upper trigram, Chên, is movement; the attributes of K'un, the 
lower, are obedience and devotion. This begins a movement that meets with 
devotion and therefore inspires enthusiasm, carrying all with it. Of great 
importance, furthermore, is the law of movement along the line of least 
resistance, which in this hexagram is enunciated as the law for natural events 
and for human life.

The Judgement

The time of ENTHUSIASM derives from the fact that there is at hand an 
eminent man who is in sympathy with the spirit of the people and acts in 
accord with it. Hence he finds universal and willing obedience. To arouse 
enthusiasm it is necessary for a man to adjust himself and his ordinances to 
the character of those whom he has to lead. The inviolability of natural laws 
rests on this principle of movement along the line of least resistance. Theses 
laws are not forces external to things but represent the harmony of 
movement immanent in them. That is why the celestial bodies do not 
deviate from their orbits and why all events in nature occur with fixed 
regularity. It is the same with human society: only such laws are rooted in 
popular sentiment can be enforced, while laws violating this sentiment 
merely arouse resentment.

 Again, it is enthusiasm that enables us to install helpers for the completion 
of an undertaking without fear of secret opposition. It is enthusiasm too that 
can unify mass movements, as in war, so that they achieve victory.

The Image

When, at the beginning of summer, thunder — electrical energy — comes 
rushing forth from the earth again, and the first thunderstorm refreshes 
nature, a prolonged state of tension is resolved. Joy and relief make 
themselves felt. So too, music has power to ease tension within the heart and 
to loosen the grip of obscure emotions. The enthusiasm of the heart 
expresses itself involuntarily in a burst of song, in dance and rhythmic 
movement of the body. From immemorial times the inspiring effect of the 
invisible sound that moves all hearts, and draws them together, has mystified 
mankind.

 Rulers have made use of this natural taste for music; they elevated and 
regulated it. Music was looked upon as something serious and holy, designed 
to purify the feelings of men. It fell to music to glorify the virtues of heroes 
and thus to construct a bridge to the world of the unseen. In the temple men 
drew near to God with music and pantomimes (out of this later the theater 
developed). Religious feeling for the Creator of the world was united with 
the most sacred of human feelings, that of reverence for the ancestors. The 
ancestors were invited to these divine services as guests of the Ruler of 
Heaven and as representatives of humanity in the higher regions. This 
uniting of the human past with the Divinity in solemn moments of 
religious inspiration established the bond between God and man. The ruler 
who revered the Divinity in revering his ancestors became thereby the Son of 
Heaven, in whom the heavenly and the earthly world met in mystical 
contact.

 These ideas are the final summation of Chinese culture. Confucius has said 
of the great sacrifice at which these rites were performed: "He who could 
wholly comprehend this sacrifice could rule the world as though it were 
spinning on his hand."

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

A man in an inferior position has aristocratic connections about which he 
boasts enthusiastically. This arrogance inevitably invites misfortune. 
Enthusiasm should never be an egotistic emotion; it is justified only when it 
is a general feeling that unites one with others.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

This describes a person who does not allow himself to be misled by any 
illusions. While others are letting themselves be dazzled by enthusiasm, he 
recognizes with perfect clarity the first signs of the time. Thus he neither 
flatters those above nor neglects those beneath him; he is as firm as a rock.
When the first sign of discord appears, he knows the right moment for 
withdrawing and does not delay even for a day. Perseverance in such conduct 
will bring good fortune. Confucius says about this line:

To know the seeds, that is divine indeed. In his association with those above 
him, the superior man does not flatter. In his association with those beneath 
him, he is not arrogant. For he knows the seeds. The seeds are the first 
imperceptible beginning of movement, the first trace of good fortune (or 
misfortune) that shows itself. The superior man perceives the seeds and 
immediately takes actin. He does not wait even a whole day. In the Book of 
Changes it is said: "Firm as a rock. Not a whole day. Perseverance brings 
good fortune."

 Firm as a rock, what need of a whole day?

 The judgment can be known.

 The superior man knows what is hidden and what is evident.

 He knows weakness, he knows strength as well.

 Hence the myriads look up to him.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

This line is the opposite of the preceding one: the latter bespeaks self-reliance, 
while here there is enthusiastic looking up to a leader. If a man hesitates too 
long, this also will bring remorse. The right moment for approach must be 
seized: only then will he do the right thing.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

This describes a man who is able to awaken enthusiasm through his own 
sureness and freedom from hesitation. He attracts people because he has no 
doubts and is wholly sincere. Owing to his confidence in them he wins their 
enthusiastic co-operation and attains success. Just as a clasp draws the hair 
together and hold it, so he draws man together by the support he gives them.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

Here enthusiasm is obstructed. A man is under constant pressure, which 
prevents him from breathing freely. However, this pressure has its 
advantage — it prevents him from consuming his powers in empty 
enthusiasm. Thus constant pressure can actually serve to keep one alive.

 The top line marked

It is a bad thing for a man to let himself be deluded by enthusiasm. But if this 
delusion has run its course, and he is still capable of changing, then he is 
freed of error. A sober awakening from false enthusiasm is quite possible and 
very favorable.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Thunder upon Earth

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

001001
I Ching Hexagram 51.
Chên / The Arousing (Shock, Thunder)

Upper trigram: Chên The Arousing, Thunder

Lower trigram: Chên The Arousing, Thunder

The Judgement

Shock brings success.

Shock comes--oh, oh!

Laughing words--ha, ha!

The shock terrifies for a hundred miles,

And he does not let fall the sacrificial spoon and chalice.

The Image

Thunder repeated: the image of Shock.

Thus in fear and trembling

The superior man sets his life in order

And examines himself.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Shock comes--oh, oh!

Then follow laughing words--ha, ha!

Good fortune.

The 2nd line marked means:

Shock comes bringing danger.

A hundred thousand times

You lose your treasures

And must climb the Change hills.

Do not go in pursuit of them.

After seven days you will get them back.

The 3rd line marked means:

Shock comes and makes one distraught.

If shock spurs to action

One remains free of misfortune.

The 4th line marked means:

Shock is mired.

The 5th line marked means:

Shock goes hither and thither.

Danger.

However, nothing at all is lost.

Yet there are things to be done.

The top line marked means:

Shock brings ruin and terrified gazing around.

Going ahead brings misfortune.

If is has not yet touched one's own body

But has reached one's neighbor first,

There is no blame.

One's comrades have something to talk about.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

The hexagram Chên represents the eldest son, who seizes rule with energy 
and power. A yang line develops below two yin lines and presses upward 
forcibly. This movement is so violent that it arouses terror. It is symbolized 
by thunder, which bursts forth from the earth and by its shock causes fear and 
trembling.

The Judgement

The shock that comes from the manifestation of God within the depths of the 
earth makes man afraid, but this fear of God is good, for joy and merriment 
can follow upon it.

 When a man has learned within his heart what fear and trembling mean, 
he is safeguarded against any terror produced by outside influences. Let the 
thunder roll and spread terror a hundred miles around: he remains so 
composed and reverent in spirit that the sacrificial rite is not interrupted.
This is the spirit that must animate leaders and rulers of men-a profound 
inner seriousness from which all terrors glance off harmlessly.

The Image

The shock of continuing thunder brings fear and trembling. The superior 
man is always filled with reverence at the manifestation of God; he sets his 
life in order and searches his heart, lest it harbor any secret opposition to the 
will of God. Thus reverence is the foundation of true culture.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

The fear and trembling engendered by shock come to an individual at first in 
such a way that he sees himself placed at a disadvantage as against others. But 
this is only transitory. When the ordeal is over, he experiences relief, and 
thus the very terror he had to endure at the outset brings good fortune in the 
long run.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

This pictures a situation in which a shock endangers a man and he suffers 
great losses. Resistance would be contrary to the movement of the time and 
for this reason unsuccessful. Therefore he must simply retreat to heights 
inaccessible to the threatening forces of danger. He must accept his loss of 
property without worrying too much about it. When the time of shock and 
upheaval that has robbed him of his possessions has passed, he will get them 
back again without going in pursuit of them.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

There are three kinds of shock-the shock of heaven, which is thunder, the 
shock of fate, and, finally, the shock of the heart. The present hexagram refers 
less to inner shock than to the shock of fate. In such times of shock, presence 
of mind is all too easily lost: the individual overlooks all opportunities for 
action and mutely lets fate take its course. But if he allows the shocks of fate 
to induce movement within his mind, he will overcome these external blows 
with little effort.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

Movement within the mind depends for its success partly on circumstances.
If there is neither a resistance that might be vigorously combated, nor yet a 
yielding that permits of victory-if, instead, everything is tough and inert like 
mire-movement is crippled.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

This is a case not of a single shock but of repeated shocks with no breathing 
space between. Nonetheless, the shock causes no loss, because one takes care 
to stay in the center of movement and in this way to be spared the fate of 
being helplessly tossed hither and thither.

 The top line marked

When inner shock is at its height, it robs a man of reflection and clarity of 
vision. In such a state of shock it is of course impossible to act with presence 
of mind. Then the right thing is to keep still until composure and clarity are 
restored. But this a man can do only when he himself is not yet infected by 
the agitation, although its disastrous effects are already visible in those 
around him. If he withdraws from the affair in time, he remains free of 
mistakes and injury. But his comrades, who no longer heed any warning, 
will in their excitement certainly be displeased with him. However, he must 
not take this into account.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Thunder upon Thunder

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

001010
I Ching Hexagram 40.
Hsieh / Deliverance

Upper trigram: Chên The Arousing, Thunder

Lower trigram: K'an The Abysmal, Water

The Judgement

Deliverance. The southwest furthers.

If there is no longer anything where one has to go,

Return brings good fortune.

If there is still something where one has to go,

Hastening brings good fortune.

The Image

Thunder and rain set in:

The image of Deliverance.

Thus the superior man pardons mistakes

And forgives misdeeds.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Without blame.

The 2nd line marked means:

One kills three foxes in the field

And receives a yellow arrow.

Perseverance brings good fortune.

The 3rd line marked means:

If a man carries a burden on his back

And nontheless rides in a carriage,

He thereby encourages robbers to draw near.

Perseverance leads to humiliation.

The 4th line marked means:

Deliver yourself from your great toe.

Then the companion comes,

And him you can trust.

The 5th line marked means:

If only the superior man can deliver himself,

It brings good fortune.

Thus he proves to inferior men that he is in earnest.

The top line marked means:

The prince shoots at a hawk on a high wall.

He kills it. Everything serves to further.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

Here the movement goes out of the sphere of danger. The obstacle has been 
removed, the difficulties are being resolved. Deliverance is not yet achieved; 
it is just in its beginning, and the hexagram represents its various stages.

The Judgement

This refers to a time in which tensions and complications begin to be eased.
At such times we ought to make our way back to ordinary conditions as soon 
as possible; this is the meaning of "the southwest." These periods of sudden 
change have great importance. Just as rain relieves atmospheric tension, 
making all the buds burst open, so a time of deliverance from burdensome 
pressure has a liberating and stimulating effect on life. One thing is 
important, however: in such times we must not overdo our triumph. The 
point is not to push on farther than is necessary. Returning to the regular 
order of life as soon as deliverance is achieved brings good fortune. If there 
are any residual matters that ought to be attended to, it should be done as 
quickly as possible, so that a clean sweep is made and no retardations occur.

The Image

A thunderstorm has the effect of clearing the air; the superior man produces 
a similar effect when dealing with mistakes and sins of men that induce a 
condition of tension. Through clarity he brings deliverance. However, when 
failings come to light, he does not dwell on them; he simply passes over 
mistakes, the unintentional transgressions, just as thunder dies away. He 
forgives misdeeds, the intentional transgressions, just as water washes 
everything clean.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

In keeping with the situation, few words are needed. The hindrance is past, 
deliverance has come. One recuperates in peace and keeps still. This is the 
right thing to do in times when difficulties have been overcome.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

The image is taken from the hunt. The hunter catches three cunning foxes 
and receives a yellow arrow as a reward. The obstacles in public life are the 
designing foxes who try to influence the ruler through flattery. They must be 
removed before there can be any deliverance. But the struggle must not be 
carried on with the wrong weapons. The yellow color points to measure and 
mean in proceeding against the enemy; the arrow signifies the straight course.
If one devotes himself wholeheartedly to the task of deliverance, he develops 
so much inner strength from his rectitude that it acts as a weapon against all 
that is false and low.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

This refers to a man who has come out of needy circumstances in to comfort 
and freedom from want. If now, in the manner of an upstart, he tries to take 
his ease in comfortable surroundings that do not suit his nature, he thereby 
attracts robbers. If he goes on thus he is sure to bring disgrace upon himself.
Confucius says about this line:

Carrying a burden on the back is the business of common man; a carriage is 
the appurtenance of a man of rank. Now, when a common man uses the 
appurtenance of man of rank, robbers plot to take it away from him. If a man 
is insolent toward those above him and hard toward those below him, 
robbers plot to attack him. Carelessness in guarding things tempts thieves to 
steal. Sumptuous ornaments worn by a maiden are an enticement to rob her 
of her virtue.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

In times of standstill it will happen that inferior people attach themselves to a 
superior man, and through force of daily habit they may grow very close to 
him and become indispensable, just as the big toe is indispensable to the foot 
because it makes walking easier. But when the time of deliverance draws 
near, with its call to deeds, a man must free himself from such chance 
acquaintances with whim he has no inner connection. For otherwise the 
friends who share his views, on whom he could really rely and together with 
whom he could accomplish something, mistrust him and stay away.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

Times of deliverance demand inner resolve. Inferior people cannot be 
driven off by prohibitions or any external means. If one desires to be rid of 
them, he must first break completely with them in his own mind; they will 
see for themselves that he is in earnest and will withdraw.

 The top line marked

The hawk on a high wall is the symbol of a powerful inferior in a high 
position who is hindering the deliverance. He withstands the force of inner 
influences, because he is hardened in his wickedness. He must be forcibly 
removed, and this requires appropriate means. Confucius says about this 
line:

The hawk is the object of the hunt; bow and arrow are the tools and means.
The marksman is man (who must make proper use of the means to his end).
The superior man contains the means in his own person. He bides his time 
and then acts. Why then should not everything go well? He acts and is free.
Therefore all he has to do is to go forth, and he takes his quarry. This is how a 
man fares who acts after he has made ready the means.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Thunder upon Water

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

001011
I Ching Hexagram 54.
Kuei Mei / The Marrying Maiden

Upper trigram: Chên The Arousing, Thunder

Lower trigram: Tui The Joyous, Lake

The Judgement

The Marrying Maiden.

Undertakings bring misfortune.

Nothing that would further.

The Image

Thunder over the lake:

The image of The Marrying Maiden.

Thus the superior man

Understands the transitory

In the light of the eternity of the end.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

The marrying maiden as a concubine.

A lame man who is able to tread.

Undertakings bring good fortune.

The 2nd line marked means:

A one-eyed man who is able to see.

The perseverance of a solitary man furthers.

The 3rd line marked means:

The marrying maiden as a slave.

She marries as a concubine.

The 4th line marked means:

The marrying maiden draws out the allotted time.

A late marriage comes in due course.

The 5th line marked means:

The sovereign I gave his daughter in marriage.

The embroidered garments of the princess

Were not as gorgeous

As those of the servingmaid.

The moon that is nearly full

Brings good fortune.

The top line marked means:

The woman holds the basket, but there are no fruits in it.

The man stabs the sheep, but no blood flows.

Nothing that acts to further.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

Above we have Chên, the eldest son, and below, Tui, the youngest daughter.
The man leads and the girl follows him in gladness. The picture is that of the 
entrance of the girl into her husband's house. In all, there are four 
hexagrams depicting the relationship between husband and wife. Hsien, 
INFLUENCE, (31), describes the attraction that a young couple have for each 
other; Hêng, DURATION (32), portrays the permanent relationships of 
marriage; Chien, DEVELOPMENT (53), reflects the protracted, ceremonious 
procedures attending THE MARRYING MAIDEN, shows a young girl under 
the guidance of an older man who marries her.

The Judgement

A girl who is taken into the family, but not as the chief wife, must behave 
with special caution and reserve. She must not take it upon herself to 
supplant the mistress of the house, for that would mean disorder and lead to 
untenable relationships.

 The same is true of all voluntary relationships between human beings.
While legally regulated relationships based on personal inclination depend in 
the long run entirely on tactful reserve.

 Affection as the essential principle of relatedness is of the greatest 
importance in all relationships in the world. For the union of heaven and 
earth is the origin of the whole of nature. Among human beings likewise, 
spontaneous affection is the all-inclusive principle of union.

The Image

Thunder stirs the water of the lake, which follows it in shimmering waves.
This symbolizes the girl who follows the man of her choice. But every 
relationship between individuals bears within it the danger that wrong turns 
may be taken, leading to endless misunderstandings and disagreements.
Therefore it is necessary constantly to remain mindful of the end. If we 
permit ourselves to drift along, we come together and are parted again as the 
day may determine. If on the other hand a man fixes his mind on an end that 
endures, he will succeed in avoiding the reefs that confront the closer 
relationships of people.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

The princess of ancient China maintained a fixed order of rank among the 
court ladies, who were subordinated to the queen as are younger sisters to the 
eldest. Frequently they came from the family of the queen, who herself led 
them to her husband.

 The meaning is that a girl entering a family with the consent of the wife 
will not rank outwardly as the equal of the latter but will withdraw modestly 
into the background. However, if she understands how to fit herself into the 
pattern of things, her position will be entirely satisfactory, and she will feel 
sheltered in the love of the husband to whom she bears children.

 The same meaning is brought out in the relationships between officials. A 
man may enjoy the personal friendship of a prince and be taken into his 
confidence. Outwardly this man must keep tactfully in the background 
behind the official ministers of state, but, although he is hampered by this 
status, as if he were lame, he can nevertheless accomplish something through 
the kindliness of his nature.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

Here the situation is that of a girl married to a man who has disappointed 
her. Man and wife ought to work together like a pair of eyes. Here the girl is 
left behind in loneliness; the man of her choice either has become unfaithful 
or has died. But she does not lost the inner light of loyalty. Thought the 
other eye is gone, she maintains her loyalty even in loneliness.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

A girl who is in a lowly position and finds no husband may, in some 
circumstances, still win shelter as a concubine.

 This pictures the situation of a person who longs too much for joys that 
cannot be obtained in the usual way. He enters upon a situation not 
altogether compatible with self-esteem. Neither judgment nor warning is 
added to this line; it merely lays bare the actual situation, so that everyone 
may draw a lesson from it.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

The girl is virtuous. She does not wish to throw herself away, and allows the 
customary time for marriage to slip by. However, there is no harm in this; 
she is rewarded for her purity and, even though belatedly, finds the husband 
intended for her. 

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

The sovereign I is T'ang the Completer. This ruler decreed that the imperial 
princesses should be subordinated to their husbands in the same manner as 
other women (cf. Hexagram 11, six in the fifth place). The emperor does not 
wait for a suitor to woo his daughter but gives her in marriage when he sees 
fit. Therefore it is in accord with custom for the girl's family to take the 
initiative here.

 We see here a girl of aristocratic birth who marries a man of modest 
circumstances and understands how to adapt herself with grace to the new 
situation. She is free of all vanity of outer adornment, and forgetting her rank 
in her marriage, takes a place below that of her husband, just as the moon, 
before it is quite full, does not directly face the sun.

 The top line marked

At the sacrifice to the ancestors, the woman had to present harvest offerings 
in a basket, while the man slaughtered the sacrificial animal with his own 
hand. Here the ritual is only superficially fulfilled; the woman takes an 
empty basket and the man stabs a sheep slaughtered beforehand-solely to 
preserve the forms. This impious, irreverent attitude bodes no good for a 
marriage.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Thunder upon Lake

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

001100
I Ching Hexagram 62.
Hsiao Kuo / Preponderance of the Small

Upper trigram: Chên The Arousing, Thunder

Lower trigram: Kên Keeping Still, Mountain

The Judgement

Preponderance of the Small. Success.

Perseverance furthers.

Small things may be done; great things should not be done.

The flying bird brings the message:

It is not well to strive upward,

It is well to remain below.

Great good fortune.

The Image

Thunder on the mountain:

The image of Preponderance of the Small.

Thus in his conduct the superior man gives preponderance to reverence.

In bereavement he gives preponderance to grief.

In his expenditures he gives preponderance to thrift.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

The bird meets with misfortune through flying.

The 2nd line marked means:

She passes by her ancestor

And meets her ancestress.

He does not reach his prince

And meets the official.

No blame.

The 3rd line marked means:

If one is not extremely careful,

Somebody may come up from behind and strike him.

Misfortune.

The 4th line marked means:

No blame. He meets him without passing by.

Going brings danger. One must be on guard.

Do not act. Be constantly persevering.

The 5th line marked means:

Dense clouds,

No rain from our western territory.

The prince shoots and hits him who is in the cave.

The top line marked means:

He passes him by, not meeting him.

The flying bird leaves him.

Misfortune.

This means bad luck and injury.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

While in the hexagram Ta Kuo, PREPONDERANCE OF THE GREAT (28), the 
strong lines preponderate and are within, inclosed between weak lines at the 
top and bottom, the present hexagram has weak lines preponderating, though 
here again they are on the outside, the strong lines being within. This indeed 
is the basis of the exceptional situation indicated by the hexagram. When 
strong lines are outside, we have the hexagram I, PROVIDING 
NOURISHMENT (27), or Chung Fu, INNER TRUTH, (61); neither represents 
and exceptional state. When strong elements within preponderate, they 
necessarily enforce their will. This creates struggle and exceptional conditions 
in general. But in the present hexagram it is the weak element that perforce 
must mediate with the outside world. If a man occupies a position of 
authority for which he is by nature really inadequate, extraordinary prudence 
is necessary.

The Judgement

Exceptional modesty and conscientiousness are sure to be rewarded with 
success; however, if a man is not to throw himself away, it is important that 
they should not become empty form and subservience but be combined 
always with a correct dignity in personal behavior. We must understand the 
demands of the time in order to find the necessary offset for its deficiencies 
and damages. In any event we must not count on great success, since the 
requisite strength is lacking. In this lies the importance of the message that 
one should not strive after lofty things but hold to lowly things.

 The structure of the hexagram gives rise to the idea that this message is 
brought by a bird. In Ta Kuo, PREPONDERANCE OF THE GREAT (28), the 
four strong, heavy lines within, supported only by two weak lines without, 
give the image of a sagging ridgepole. Here the supporting weak lines are 
both outside and preponderant; this gives the image of a soaring bird. But a 
bird should not try to surpass itself and fly into the sun; it should descend to 
the earth, where its nest is. In this way it gives the message conveyed by the 
hexagram.

The Image

Thunder on the mountain is different from thunder on the plain. In the 
mountains, thunder seems much nearer; outside the mountains, it is less 
audible than the thunder of an ordinary storm. Thus the superior man 
derives an imperative from this image: he must always fix his eyes more 
closely and more directly on duty than does the ordinary man, even though 
this might make his behavior seem petty to the outside world. He is 
exceptionally conscientious in his actions. In bereavement emotion means 
more to him than ceremoniousness. In all his personal expenditures he is 
extremely simple and unpretentious. In comparison with the man of the 
masses, all this makes him stand out as exceptional. But the essential 
significance of his attitude lies in the fact that in external matters he is on the 
side of the lowly.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

A bird ought to remain in the nest until it is fledged. If it tries to fly before 
this, it invites misfortune. Extraordinary measures should be resorted to only 
when all else fails. At first we ought to put up with traditional ways as long 
as possible; otherwise we exhaust ourselves and our energy and still achieve 
nothing.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

Two exceptional situations are instanced here. In the temple of ancestors, 
where alternation of generations prevails, the grandson stands on the same 
side as the grandfather. Hence his closest relations are with the grandfather.
The present line designates the grandson's wife, who during the sacrifice 
passes by the ancestor and goes toward the ancestress. This unusual behavior 
is, however, an expression of her modesty. She ventures rather to approach 
the ancestress, for she feels related to her by their common sex. Hence here 
deviation from the rule is not a mistake.

 Another image is that of the official who, in compliance with regulation, 
first seeks an audience with his prince. If he is not successful in this, he does 
not try to force anything but goes about conscientious fulfillment of his duty, 
taking his place among the other officials. This extraordinary restraint is 
likewise not a mistake in exceptional times. (The rule is that every official 
should first have an audience with the prince by whom he is appointed. Here 
the appointment is made by the minister.)

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

At certain times extraordinary caution is absolutely necessary. But it is just in 
such life situations that we find upright and strong personalities who, 
conscious of being in the right, disdain to hold themselves on guard, because 
they consider it petty. Instead, they go their way proud and unconcerned. But 
this self-confidence deludes them. There are dangers lurking for which they 
are unprepared. Yet such danger is not unavoidable; one can escape it if he 
understands that the time demands that he pay especial attention to small 
and insignificant thing.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

Hardness of character is tempered by yielding position so that no mistakes are 
made. The situation here calls for extreme caution; one must make no 
attempt of one's own initiative to reach the desired end. And if one were to 
go on, endeavoring one must be on guard and not act but continue inwardly 
to persevere.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

As a high place is pictured here, the image of a flying bird has become that of 
flying clouds. But dense as the clouds are, they race across the sky and give 
no rain. Similarly, in exceptional times there may be a born ruler who is 
qualified to set the world in order, but who cannot achieve anything or confer 
blessing on the people because he stands alone and has no helpers. Is such 
times a man must seek out helpers with whose aid he can carry out the task.
But these helpers must be modestly sought out in the retirement to which 
they have withdrawn. It is not in the fame nor their great names but their 
genuine achievements that are important. Through such modesty the right 
man is found, and the exceptional task is carried out in spite of all difficulties.

 The top line marked

If one overshoots the goal, one cannot hit it. If a bird will not come to its nest 
but flies higher and higher, it eventually falls into the hunter's net. He who 
in times of extraordinary salience of small things does not know how to call a 
halt, but restlessly seeks to press on and on, draws upon himself misfortune 
at the hands of gods and men, because he deviates from the order of nature.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Thunder upon Mountain

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

001101
I Ching Hexagram 55.
Fêng / Abundance (Fullness)

Upper trigram: Chên The Arousing, Thunder

Lower trigram: Li The Clinging, Flame

The Judgement

Abundance has success.

The king attains abundance.

Be not sad.

Be like the sun at midday.

The Image

Both thunder and lightning come:

The image of Abundance.

Thus the superior man decides lawsuits

And carries out punishments.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

When a man meets his destined ruler,

They can be together ten days,

And it is not a mistake.

Going meets with recognition.

The 2nd line marked means:

The curtain is of such fullness

That the polestars can be seen at noon.

Through going one meets with mistrust and hate.

If one rouses him through truth,

Good fortune comes.

The 3rd line marked means:

The underbrush is of such abundance

That the small stars can be seen at noon.

He breaks his right arm. No blame.

The 4th line marked means:

The curtain is of such fullness

That the polestars can be seen at noon.

He meets his ruler, who is of like kind.

Good fortune.

The 5th line marked means:

Lines are coming,

Blessing and fame draw near.

Good fortune.

The top line marked means:

His house is in a state of abundance.

He screens off his family.

He peers through the gate

And no longer perceives anyone.

For three years he sees nothing.

Misfortune.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

Chên is movement; Li is flame, whose attribute is clarity. Clarity within, 
movement without-this produces greatness and abundance. The hexagram 
pictures a period of advanced civilization. However, the fact that 
development has reached a peak suggests that this extraordinary condition of 
abundance cannot be maintained permanently.

The Judgement

It is not given to every mortal to bring about a time of outstanding greatness 
and abundance. Only a born ruler of men is able to do it, because his will is 
directed to what is great. Such a time of abundance is usually brief. Therefore 
a sage might well feel sad in view of the decline that must follow. But such 
sadness foes not befit him. Only a man who is inwardly free of sorrow and 
care can lead in a time of abundance. He must be like the sun at midday, 
illuminating and gladdening everything under heaven.

The Image

This hexagram has a certain connection with Shih Ho, BITING THROUGH 
(21), in which thunder and lightning similarly appear together, but in the 
reverse order. In BITING THROUGH, laws are laid down; here they are 
applied and enforced. Clarity [Li] within makes it possible to investigate the 
facts exactly, and shock [Chên] without ensures a strict and precise carrying 
out of punishments.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

To bring about a time of abundance, a union of clarity with energetic 
movement is needed. Two individuals possessed of these two attributes are 
suited to each other, and even if they spend an entire cycle of time together 
during the period of abundance, it will not be too long, nor is it a mistake.
Therefore one may go forth, in order to make one's influence felt; it will meet 
with recognition.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

It often happens that plots and party intrigues, which have the darkening 
effect of an eclipse of the sun, come between a ruler intent on great 
achievement and the man who could effect great undertakings. Then, 
instead of the sun, we see the northern stars in the sky. The ruler is 
overshadowed by a party that has usurped power. If a man at such a time 
were to try to take energetic measures, he would encounter only mistrust and 
envy, which would prohibit all movement. The essential thing then is to 
hold inwardly to the power of truth, which in the end is so strong that it 
exerts an invisible influence on the ruler, so that all goes well.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

The image is that of a progressive covering over of the sun. Here the eclipse 
reaches totality, therefore even the small stars can be seen at noon.

 In the sphere of social relationships, this means that the prince is now so 
eclipsed that even the most insignificant persons can push themselves into 
the foreground. This makes it impossible for an able man, though he might 
be the right hand of the ruler, to undertake anything. It is as though his arm 
were broken, but he is not to blame for being thus hindered in action.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

Here the darkness is already decreasing, therefore interrelated elements come 
together. Here too the complement must be found-the necessary wisdom to 
complement joy of action. Then everything will go well. The 
complementary factor postulated here is the reverse of the one in the first 
line. In the latter, wisdom is to be complemented by energy, while here 
energy is complemented by wisdom.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

The ruler is modest and therefore open to the counsel of able men. Thus he 
is surrounded by men who suggest to him the lines of action. This brings 
blessing, fame, and good fortune to him and all the people.

 The top line marked

This describes a man who because of his arrogance and obstinacy attains the 
opposite of what he strives for. He seeks abundance and splendor for his 
dwelling. He wishes at all odds to be master in his house, which so alienates 
his family that in the end he finds himself completely isolated.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Thunder upon Flame

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

001110
I Ching Hexagram 32.
Hêng / Duration

Upper trigram: Chên The Arousing, Thunder

Lower trigram: Sun The Gentle, Wind, Wood

The Judgement

Duration. Success. No blame.

Perseverance furthers.

It furthers one to have somewhere to go.

The Image

Thunder and wind: the image of Duration.

Thus the superior man stands firm

And does not change his direction.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Seeking duration too hastily brings misfortune persistently.

Nothing that would further.

The 2nd line marked means:

Remorse disappears.

The 3rd line marked means:

He who does not give duration to his character

Meets with disgrace.

Persistent humiliation.

The 4th line marked means:

No game in the field.

The 5th line marked means:

Giving duration to one's character through perseverance.

This is good fortune for a woman, misfortune for a man.

The top line marked means:

Restlessness as an enduring condition brings misfortune.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

The strong trigram Chên is above, the weak trigram Sun below. This 
hexagram is the inverse of the preceding one. In the latter we have influence, 
here we have union as an enduring condition. The two images are thunder 
and wind, which are likewise constantly paired phenomena. The lower 
trigram indicates gentleness within; the upper, movement without.

 In the sphere of social relationships, the hexagram represents the institution 
of marriage as the enduring union of the sexes. During courtship the young 
man subordinates himself to the girl, but in marriage, which is represented by 
the coming together of the eldest son and the eldest daughter, the husband is 
the directing and moving force outside, while the wife, inside, is gentle and 
submissive.

The Judgement

Duration is a state whose movement is not worn down by hindrances. It is 
not a state of rest, for mere standstill is regression. Duration is rather the self-
contained and therefore self-renewing movement of an organized, firmly 
integrated whole, taking place in accordance with immutable laws and 
beginning anew at every ending. The end is reached by an inward 
movement, by inhalation, systole, contraction, and this movement turns into 
a new beginning, in which the movement is directed outward, in exhalation, 
diastole, expansion.

 Heavenly bodies exemplify duration. They move in their fixed orbits, and 
because of this their light-giving power endures. The seasons of the year 
follow a fixed law of change and transformation, hence can produce effects 
that endure.

 So likewise the dedicated man embodies an enduring meaning in his way 
of life, and thereby the world is formed. In that which gives things their 
duration, we can come to understand the nature of all beings in heaven and 
on earth.

The Image

Thunder rolls, and the wind blows; both are examples of extreme mobility 
and so are seemingly the very opposite of duration, but the laws governing 
their appearance and subsidence, their coming and going, endure. In the same 
way the independence of the superior man is not based on rigidity and 
immobility of character. He always keeps abreast of the time and changes 
with it. What endures is the unswerving directive, the inner law of his 
being, which determines all his actions.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

Whatever endures can be created only gradually by long-continued work and 
careful reflection. In the same sense Lao-tse says: "If we wish to compress 
something, we must first let it fully expand." He who demands too much at 
once is acting precipitately, and because he attempts too much, he ends by 
succeeding in nothing.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

The situation is abnormal. A man's force of character is greater than the 
available material power. Thus he might be afraid of allowing himself to 
attempt something beyond his strength. However, since it is the time of 
DURATION, it is possible for him to control his inner strength and so to 
avoid excess. Cause for remorse then disappears.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

If a man remains at the mercy of moods of hope or fear aroused by the outer 
world, he loses his inner consistency of character. Such inconsistency 
invariably leads to distressing experiences. These humiliations often come 
from an unforeseen quarter. Such experiences are not merely effects 
produced by the external world, but logical consequences evoked by his own 
nature.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

If we are in pursuit of game and want to get a shot at a quarry, we must set 
about it in the right way. A man who persists in stalking game in a place 
where there is none may wait forever without finding any. Persistence in 
search is not enough. What is not sought in the right way is not found.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

A woman should follow a man her whole life long, but a man should at all 
times hold to what is his duty at the given moment. Should he persistently 
seek to conform to the woman, it would be a mistake for him. Accordingly it 
is altogether right for a woman to hold conservatively to tradition, but a man 
must always be flexible and adaptable and allow himself to be guided solely by 
what his duty requires of him at the moment.

 The top line marked

There are people who live in a state of perpetual hurry without ever attaining
inner composure. Restlessness not only prevents all thoroughness but actually
becomes a danger if it is dominant in places of authority.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Thunder upon Wind

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

001111
I Ching Hexagram 34.
Ta Chuang / The Power of the Great

Upper trigram: Chên The Arousing, Thunder

Lower trigram: Ch'ien The Creative, Heaven

The Judgement

The Power of the Great. Perseverance furthers.

The Image

Thunder in heaven above:

The image of The Power of the Great.

Thus the superior man does not tread upon paths

That do not accord with established order.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Power in the toes.

Continuing brings misfortune.

This is certainly true.

The 2nd line marked means:

Perseverance brings good fortune.

The 3rd line marked means:

The inferior man works through power.

The superior man does not act thus.

To continue is dangerous.

A goat butts against a hedge

And gets its horns entangled.

The 4th line marked means:

Perseverance brings good fortune.

Remorse disappears.

The hedge opens; there is no entanglement.

Power depends upon the axle of a big cart.

The 5th line marked means:

Loses the goat with ease.

No remorse.

The top line marked means:

A goat butts against a hedge.

It cannot go backward, it cannot go forward.

Nothing serves to further.

If one notes the difficulty, this brings good fortune.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

The great lines, that is, the light, strong lines, are powerful. Four light lines 
have entered the hexagram from below and are about to ascend higher. The 
upper trigram is Chên, the Arousing; the lower is ch'ien, the Creative.
Ch'ien is strong, Chên produces movement. The union of movement and 
strength gives the meaning of THE POWER OF THE GREAT. The hexagram 
is linked with the second month (March-April).

The Judgement

The hexagram points to a time when inner worth mounts with great force 
and comes to power. But its strength has already passed beyond the median 
line, hence there is danger that one may rely entirely on one's own power 
and forget to ask what is right. There is danger too that, being intent on 
movement, we may not wait for the right time. Therefore the added 
statement that perseverance furthers. For that is truly great power which does 
not degenerate into mere force but remains inwardly united with the 
fundamental principles of right and of justice. When we understand this 
point — namely, that greatness and justice must be indissolubly united — we 
understand the true meaning of all that happens in heaven and on earth.

The Image

Thunder — electrical energy — mounts upward in the spring. The direction of 
this movement is in harmony with that of the movement of heaven. It is 
therefore a movement in accord with heaven, producing great power.
However, true greatness depends on being in harmony with what is right.
Therefore in times of great power the superior man avoids doing anything 
that is not in harmony with the established order.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

The toes are in the lowest place and are ready to advance. So likewise great 
power in lowly station is inclined to effect advance by force. This, if carried 
further, would certainly lead to misfortune, and therefore by way of advice a 
warning is added.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

The premise here is that the gates to success are beginning to open.
Resistance gives way and we forge ahead. This is the point at which, only too 
easily, we become the prey of exuberant self-confidence. This is why the 
oracle says that perseverance (i.e., perseverance in inner equilibrium, without 
excessive use of power) brings good fortune.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

Making a boast of power leads to entanglements, just as a goat entangles its 
horns when it butts against a hedge. Whereas an inferior man revels in 
power when he comes into possession of it, the superior man never makes 
this mistake. He is conscious at all times of the danger of pushing ahead 
regardless of circumstances, and therefore renounces in good time the empty 
display of force.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

If a man goes on quietly and perseveringly working at the removal of 
resistances, success comes in the end. The obstructions give way and all 
occasion for remorse arising from excessive use of power disappears.

Such a man's power does not show externally, yet it can move heavy loads, 
like a big cart whose real strength lies in its axle. The less that power is 
applied outwardly, the greater its effect.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

The goat is noted for hardness outwardly and weakness within. Now the 
situation is such that everything is easy; there is no more resistance. One can 
give up a belligerent, stubborn way of acting and will not have to regret it.

 The top line marked

If we venture too far we come to a deadlock, unable either to advance or to 
retreat and whatever we do merely serves to complicate thing further. Such 
obstinacy leads to insuperable difficulties. But if, realizing the situation, we 
compose ourselves and decide not to continue, everything will right itself in 
time.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Thunder upon Heaven

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

010000
I Ching Hexagram 8.
Pi / Holding Together (Union)

Upper trigram: K'an The Abysmal, Water

Lower trigram: K'un The Receptive, Earth

The Judgement

Holding Together brings good fortune.

Inquire of the oracle once again

Whether you possess sublimity, constancy, and perseverance;

Then there is no blame.

Those who are uncertain gradually join.

Whoever comes too late

Meets with misfortune.

The Image

On the earth is water:

The image of Holding Together.

Thus the kings of antiquity

Bestowed the different states as fiefs

And cultivated friendly relations

With the feudal lords.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Hold to him in truth and loyalty;

This is without blame.

Truth, like a full earthen bowl:

Thus in the end

Good fortune comes from without.

The 2nd line marked means:

Hold to him inwardly.

Perseverance brings good fortune.

The 3rd line marked means:

You hold together with the wrong people.

The 4th line marked means:

Hold to him outwardly also.

Perseverance brings good fortune.

The 5th line marked means:

Manifestation of holding together.

In the hunt the king uses beaters on three sides only

And foregoes game that runs off in front.

The citizens need no warning.

Good fortune.

The top line marked means:

He finds no head for holding together.

Misfortune.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

The waters on the surface of the earth flow together wherever they can, as for 
example in the ocean, where all the rivers come together. Symbolically this 
connotes holding together and the laws that regulate it. The same idea is 
suggested by the fact that all the lines of the hexagram except the fifth, the 
place of the ruler, are yielding. The yielding lines hold together because they 
are influenced by a man of strong will in the leading position, a man who is 
their center of union. Moreover, this strong and guiding personality in turn 
holds together with the others, finding in them the complement of his own 
nature.

The Judgement

What is required is that we unite with others, in order that all may 
complement and aid one another through holding together. But such 
holding together calls for a central figure around whom other persons may 
unite. To become a center of influence holding people together is a grave 
matter and fraught with great responsibility. It requires greatness of spirit, 
consistency, and strength. Therefore let him who wishes to gather others 
about him ask himself whether he is equal to the undertaking, for anyone 
attempting the task without a real calling for it only makes confusion worse 
than if no union at all had taken place.

 But when there is a real rallying point, those who at first are hesitant or 
uncertain gradually come in of their own accord. Late-comers must suffer the 
consequences, for in holding together the question of the right time is also 
important. Relationships are formed and firmly established according to 
definite inner laws. Common experiences strengthen these ties, and he who 
comes too late to share in these basic experiences must suffer for it if, as a 
straggler, he finds the door locked.

 If a man has recognized the necessity for union and does not feel strong 
enough to function as the center, it is his duty to become a member of some 
other organic fellowship.

The Image

Water fills up all the empty places on the earth and clings fast to it. The social 
organization of ancient China was based on this principle of the holding 
together of dependents and rulers. Water flows to unite with water, because 
all parts of it are subject to the same laws. So too should human society hold 
together through a community of interests that allows each individual to feel 
himself a member of a whole. The central power of a social organization 
must see to it that every member finds that his true interest lies in holding 
together with it, as was the case in the paternal relationship between king and 
vassals in ancient China.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

Fundamental sincerity is the only proper basis for forming relationships.
This attitude, symbolized by a full earthen bowl, in which the content is 
everything and the empty form nothing, shows itself not in clever words but 
through the strength of what lies within the speaker. This strength is so great 
that it has power to attract good fortune to itself from without.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

If a person responds perseveringly and in the right way to the behests from 
above that summon him to action, his relations with others are intrinsic and 
he does not lose himself. But if a man seeks association with others as if he 
were an obsequious office hunter, he throws himself away. He does not 
follow the path of the superior man, who never loses his dignity.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

We are often among people who do not belong to our own sphere. In that 
case we must beware of being drawn into false intimacy through force of 
habit. Needless to say, this would have evil consequences. Maintaining 
sociability without intimacy is the only right attitude toward people, because 
otherwise we should not be free to enter into relationship with people of our 
own kind later on.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

Here the relations with a man who is the center of union are well established.
Then we may, and indeed we should, show our attachment openly. But we 
must remain constant and not allow ourselves to be led astray.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

In the royal hunts of ancient China it was customary to drive up the game 
from three sides, but on the fourth the animals had a chance to run off. If 
they failed to do this they had to pass through a gate behind which the king 
stood ready to shoot. Only animals that entered here were shot; those that 
ran off in front were permitted to escape. This custom accorded with a kingly 
attitude; the royal hunter did not wish to turn the chase into a slaughter, but 
held that the kill should consist only of those animals which had so to speak 
voluntarily exposed themselves.

 There is depicted here a ruler, or influential man, to whom people are 
attracted. Those who come to him he accepts, those who do not come are 
allowed to go their own way. He invited none, flatters none — all come of 
their own free will. In this way there develops a voluntary dependence 
among those who hold him. They do not have to be constantly on their 
guard but may express their opinions openly. Police measures are not 
necessary, and they cleave to their ruler of their own volition. The same 
principle of freedom is valid for life in general. We should not woo favor 
from people. If a man cultivates within himself the purity and the strength 
that are necessary for one who is the center of a fellowship, those who are 
meant for him come of their own accord.

 The top line marked

The head is the beginning. If the beginning is not right, there is no hope of a 
right ending. If we have missed the right moment for union and go on 
hesitating to give complete and full devotion, we shall regret the error when 
it is too late.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Water upon Earth

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

010001
I Ching Hexagram 3.
Chun / Difficulty at the Beginning

Upper trigram: K'an The Abysmal, Water

Lower trigram: Chên The Arousing, Thunder

The Judgement

Difficulty at the Beginning works supreme success,

Furthering through perseverance.

Nothing should be undertaken.

It furthers one to appoint helpers.

The Image

Clouds and thunder:

The image of Difficulty at the Beginning.

Thus the superior man

Brings order out of confusion.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Hesitation and hindrance.

It furthers one to remain persevering.

It furthers one to appoint helpers.

The 2nd line marked means:

Difficulties pile up.

Horse and wagon part.

He is not a robber;

He wants to woo when the time comes.

The maiden is chaste,

She does not pledge herself.

Ten years--then she pledges herself.

The 3rd line marked means:

Whoever hunts deer without the forester

Only loses his way in the forest.

The superior man understands the signs of the time

And prefers to desist.

To go on brings humiliation.

The 4th line marked means:

Horse and wagon part.

Strive for union.

To go on brings good fortune.

Everything acts to further.

The 5th line marked means:

Difficulties in blessing.

A little perseverance brings good fortune.

Great perseverance brings misfortune.

The top line marked means:

Horse and wagon part.

Bloody tears flow.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

The name of the hexagram, Chun, really connotes a blade of grass pushing 
against an obstacle as it sprouts out of the earth — hence the meaning, 
"difficulty at the beginning." The hexagram indicates the way in which 
heaven and earth bring forth individual beings. It is their first meeting, 
which is beset with difficulties. The lower trigram Chên is the Arousing; its 
motion is upward and its image is thunder. The upper trigram K'an stands 
for the Abysmal, the dangerous. Its motion is downward and its image is 
rain. The situation points to teeming, chaotic profusion; thunder and rain fill 
the air. But the chaos clears up. While the Abysmal sinks, the upward 
movement eventually passes beyond the danger. A thunderstorm brings 
release from tension, and all things breathe freely again.

The Judgement

Times of growth are beset with difficulties. They resemble a first birth. But 
these difficulties arise from the very profusion of all that is struggling to 
attain form . Everything is in motion: therefore if one perseveres there is a 
prospect of great success, in spite of the existing danger. When it is a man's 
fate to undertake such new beginnings, everything is still unformed, dark.
Hence he must hold back, because any premature move might bring disaster.
Likewise, it is very important not to remain alone; in order to overcome the 
chaos he needs helpers. This is not to say, however, that he himself should 
look on passively at what is happening. He must lend his hand and 
participate with inspiration and guidance.

The Image

Clouds and thunder are represented by definite decorative lines; this means 
that in the chaos of difficulty at the beginning, order is already implicit. So 
too the superior man has to arrange and organize the inchoate profusion of 
such times of beginning, just as one sorts out silk threads from a knotted 
tangle and binds them into skeins. In order to find one's place in the infinity 
of being, one must be able both to separate and to unite.

The Lines

If a person encounters a hindrance at the beginning of an enterprise, he must 
not try to force advance but must pause and take thought. However, nothing 
should put him off his course; he must persevere and constantly keep the 
goal in sight. It is important to seek out the right assistants, but he can find 
them only if he avoids arrogance and associated with his fellows in a spirit of 
humility. Only then will he attract those with whose help he can combat the 
difficulties.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

We find ourselves beset by difficulties and hindrances. Suddenly there is a 
turn of affairs, as if someone were coming up with a horse and wagon and 
unhitching them. This event comes so unexpectedly that we assume the 
newcomer to be a robber. Gradually it becomes clear that he has no evil 
intentions but seeks to be friendly and to offer help. But this offer is not to be 
accepted, because it does not come from the right quarter. We must wait until 
the time is fulfilled; ten years is a fulfilled cycle of time. Then normal 
conditions return of themselves, and we can join forces with the friend 
intended for us.

 Using the image of a betrothed girl who remains true to her lover in face of 
grave conflicts, the hexagram gives counsel for a special situation. When in 
times of difficulty a hindrance is encountered and unexpected relief is offered 
from a source unrelated to us, we must be careful and not take upon 
ourselves any obligations entailed by such help; otherwise our freedom of 
decision is impaired. If we bide our time, things will quiet down again, and 
we shall attain what we have hoped for.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

If a man tries to hunt in a strange forest and has no guide, he loses his way.
When he finds himself in difficulties he must not try to steal out of them 
unthinkingly and without guidance. Fate cannot be duped; premature effort, 
without the necessary guidance, ends in failure and disgrace. Therefore the 
superior man, discerning the seeds of coming events, prefers to renounce a 
wish rather than to provoke failure and humiliation by trying to force its 
fulfillment.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

We are in a situation in which it is our duty to act, but we lack sufficient 
power. However, an opportunity to make connections offers itself. It must be 
seized. Neither false pride nor false reserve should deter us. Bringing oneself 
to take the first step, even when it involves a certain degree of self-
abnegation, is a sign of inner clarity. To accept help in a difficult situation is 
not a disgrace. If the right helper is found, all goes well.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

An individual is in a position in which he cannot so express his good 
intentions that they will actually take shape and be understood. Other people 
interpose and distort everything he does. He should then be cautious and 
proceed step by step. He must not try to force the consummation of a great 
undertaking, because success is possible only when general confidence already 
prevails. It is only through faithful and conscientious work, unobtrusively 
carried on, that the situation gradually clears up and the hindrance 
disappears.

 The top line marked

The difficulties at the beginning are too great for some persons. They get 
stuck and never find their way out; they fold their hands and give up the 
struggle. Such resignation is the saddest of all things. Therefore Confucius 
says of this line: "Bloody tears flow: one should not persist in this."

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Water upon Thunder

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

010010
I Ching Hexagram 29.
K'an / The Abysmal (Water)

Upper trigram: K'an The Abysmal, Water

Lower trigram: K'an The Abysmal, Water

The Judgement

The Abysmal repeated.

If you are sincere, you have success in your heart,

And whatever you do succeeds.

The Image

Water flows on uninterruptedly and reaches it goal:

The image of the Abysmal repeated.

Thus the superior man walks in lasting virtue

And carries on the business of teaching.

The Lines

These texts apply only for the lines that were marked, when the hexagram was cast. Note that the lines are counted from the bottom up.

The bottom line marked means:

Repetition of the Abysmal.

In the abyss one falls into a pit.

Misfortune.

The 2nd line marked means:

The abyss is dangerous.

One should strive to attain small things only.

The 3rd line marked means:

Forward and backward, abyss on abyss.

In danger like this, pause at first and wait,

Otherwise you will fall into a pit in the abyss.

Do not act in this way.

The 4th line marked means:

A jug of wine, a bowl of rice with it;

Earthen vessels

Simply handed in through the window.

There is certainly no blame in this.

The 5th line marked means:

The abyss is not filled to overflowing,

It is filled only to the rim.

No blame.

The top line marked means:

Bound with cords and ropes,

Shut in between thorn-hedged prison walls:

For three years one does not find the way.

Misfortune.

The interpretations above and comments below are from Richard Wilhelm's version of the I CHING.

Comments on the Hexagram

This hexagram consists of a doubling of the trigram K'an. It is one of the 
eight hexagrams in which doubling occurs. The trigram K'an means a 
plunging in. A yang line has plunged in between two yin lines and is closed 
in by them like water in a ravine. The trigram K'an is also the middle son.
The Receptive has obtained the middle line of the Creative, and thus K'an 
develops. As an image it represents water, the water that comes from above 
and is in motion on earth in streams and rivers, giving rise to all life on 
earth.

 In man's world K'an represents the heart, the soul locked up within the 
body, the principle of light inclosed in the dark — that is, reason. The name of 
the hexagram, because the trigram is doubled, has the additional meaning, 
"repetition of danger." Thus the hexagram is intended to designate an 
objective situation to which one must become accustomed, not a subjective 
attitude. For danger due to a subjective attitude means either foolhardiness 
or guile. Hence too a ravine is used to symbolize danger; it is a situation in 
which a man is in the same pass as the water in a ravine, and, like the water, 
he can escape if he behaves correctly.

The Judgement

Through repetition of danger we grow accustomed to it. Water sets the 
example for the right conduct under such circumstances. It flows on and on, 
and merely fills up all the places through which it flows; it does not shrink 
from any dangerous spot nor from any plunge, and nothing can make it lose 
its own essential nature. It remains true to itself under all conditions. Thus 
likewise, if one is sincere when confronted with difficulties, the heart can 
penetrate the meaning of the situation. And once we have gained inner 
mastery of a problem, it will come about naturally that the action we take will 
succeed. In danger all that counts is really carrying out all that has to be done-
-thoroughness — and going forward, in order not to perish through tarrying in 
the danger.

 Properly used, danger can have an important meaning as a protective 
measure. Thus heaven has its perilous height protecting it against every 
attempt at invasion, and earth has its mountains and bodies of water, 
separating countries by their dangers. Thus also rulers make use of danger to 
protect themselves against attacks from without and against turmoil within.

The Image

Water reaches its goal by flowing continually. It fills up every depression 
before it flows on. The superior man follows its example; he is concerned 
that goodness should be an established attribute of character rather than an 
accidental and isolated occurrence. So likewise in teaching others everything 
depends on consistency, for it is only through repetition that the pupil makes 
the material his own.

The Lines

 The bottom line marked

By growing used to what is dangerous, a man can easily allow it to become 
part of him. He is familiar with it and grows used to evil. With this he has 
lost the right way, and misfortune is the natural result.

 The 2nd line from the bottom marked

When we are in danger we ought not to attempt to get out of it immediately, 
regardless of circumstances; at first we must content ourselves with not being 
overcome by it. We must calmly weigh the conditions of the time and by 
satisfied with small gains, because for the time being a great success cannot be 
attained. A spring flows only sparingly at first, and tarries for some time 
before it makes its way in to the open.

 The 3rd line from the bottom marked

Here every step, forward or backward, leads into danger. Escape is out of the 
question. Therefore we must not be misled into action, as a result of which 
we should only bog down deeper in the danger; disagreeable as it may be to 
remain in such a situation, we must wait until a way out shows itself.

 The 4th line from the bottom marked

In times of danger ceremonious forms are dropped. What matters most is 
sincerity. Although as a rule it is customary for an official to present certain 
introductory gifts and recommendations before he is appointed, here 
everything is simplified to the utmost. The gifts are insignificant, there is no 
one to sponsor him, he introduces himself; yet all this need not be 
humiliating if only there is the honest intention of mutual help in danger.
Still another idea is suggested. The window is the place through which light 
enters the room. If in difficult times we want to enlighten someone, we must 
begin with that which is in itself lucid and proceed quite simply from that 
point on.

 The 5th line from the bottom marked

Danger comes because one is too ambitious. In order to flow out of a ravine, 
water does not rise higher than the lowest point of the rim. So likewise a 
man when in danger has only to proceed along the line of least resistance; 
thus he reaches the goal. Great labors cannot be accomplished in such times; it 
is enough to get out of the danger.

 The top line marked

A man who in the extremity of danger has lost the right way and is 
irremediably entangled in his sins has no prospect of escape. He is like a 
criminal who sits shackled behind thorn hedged prison walls.

Further Reading

Here I add some perspectives on this hexagram, as well as other methods to read its meaning, in additon to what Richard Wilhelm derives from it above.

Meaning of the Trigrams Combined

Each hexagram combines two trigrams, making one the upper and the other the lower. The meaning of the hexagram is mainly derived from that combination. Here's what it means for this hexagram:

Water upon Water

This part of the text is being edited. It will be added shortly.

